---

title: Image forming apparatus and guide therefor capable of reducing toner scattered on recording medium
abstract: An image forming apparatus includes an image carrier, a transferor, a fixing unit, and a guide. The image carrier carries a toner image. The transferor opposes the image carrier to form a transfer nip and transfers the toner image on the image carrier onto a recording medium at the transfer nip. The fixing unit fixes the toner image on the recording medium. The guide guides the recording medium bearing the toner image from the transferor toward the fixing unit and includes a surface portion directly contacting the recording medium. The surface portion includes a material for charging the recording medium to have a polarity opposite to the polarity of a toner forming the toner image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08412089&OS=08412089&RS=08412089
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 08412089
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110107
---
The present application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 588 340 filed on Oct. 27 2006 now U.S. Pat. No 7 899 386 which is based upon and claims priority to Japanese patent application No. 2005 317788 filed on Oct. 31 2005 in the Japan Patent Office the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Exemplary aspects of the present invention relate to an image forming apparatus and a guide therefor and more particularly to an image forming apparatus and a guide for guiding a recording medium bearing a toner image from a transferor to a fixing unit.

A related art image forming apparatus such as a copying machine a facsimile machine a printer or a multifunction printer having copying printing scanning and facsimile functions forms an electrostatic latent image on a photoconductor according to image data. The electrostatic latent image is developed with a developer e.g. a toner to form a toner image on the photoconductor. The toner image is transferred onto a recording medium e.g. a sheet of paper and sent to a fixing unit. In the fixing unit a fixing roller and a pressing roller apply heat and pressure to the recording medium bearing the toner image to fix the toner image on the recording medium.

The toner image formed on the photoconductor may be transferred onto the recording medium directly from the photoconductor or indirectly via an intermediate transfer medium hereinafter referred to as the intermediate transfer belt . When the toner image is indirectly transferred via the intermediate transfer belt the toner image formed on the photoconductor is transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt and further transferred from the intermediate transfer belt onto the recording medium. The photoconductor or the intermediate transfer belt opposes a transfer bias roller to form a transfer nip at which the toner image is transferred from the photoconductor or the intermediate transfer belt onto one side i.e. front side of the recording medium. Specifically the transfer bias roller applies a transfer bias having a polarity opposite to the polarity of a toner forming the toner image to the other side i.e. backside of the recording medium. Thus the recording medium has an electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner and thereby attracts the toner resulting in electrostatic transfer of the toner image.

When the amount of electric charge on the backside of the recording medium is too large the recording medium is electrostatically attracted to the photoconductor or the intermediate transfer belt after the recording medium passes the transfer nip. In this case a problem occurs such that the recording medium cannot separate from the photoconductor or the intermediate transfer belt resulting in jamming of the recording medium. In addition a problem which occurs is that the electric charge is abruptly transferred from the backside of the recording medium to a protruding member and or a metallic member disposed on a downstream side from the transfer nip and on an upstream side from the fixing unit in a conveyance direction of the recording medium. This problem results in formation of a defective toner image including small circle marks on the recording medium.

Further when the backside of the recording medium has too large an amount of electric charge the front side of the recording medium has a substantial amount of electric charge having a polarity opposite to the polarity of the electric charge of the backside of the recording medium. When the electric charge of the front side of the recording medium moves along the surface thereof the toner image on the front side of the recording medium may be deformed. Specifically a defective toner image such as zigzag images may be formed along a trail of the moving electric charge.

To address the above described problems an example of a related art image forming apparatus is proposed which further includes a discharger for discharging the backside of the recording medium immediately after the recording medium passes the transfer nip.

In addition a related art image forming apparatus is provided which uses a spherical toner manufactured by a polymerization method so as to form a high resolution toner image. Toner particles of the spherical toner make point contact with each other. Therefore the toner particles attract each other with a decreased attracting force and have an increased flowability. The toner particles also make point contact with the photoconductor or the intermediate transfer belt. Therefore the photoconductor or the intermediate transfer belt attracts the toner particles with a decreased attracting force thereby increasing transfer efficiency.

In the fixing unit the fixing roller opposes the pressing roller to form a fixing nip at which the fixing roller and the pressing roller apply heat and pressure to the recording medium bearing the toner image so as to fix the toner image on the recording medium. When the fixing roller scrubs the pressing roller or the recording medium at the fixing nip the fixing roller may be charged with the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner by friction between the fixing roller and the pressing roller or the recording medium. When a recording medium bearing a toner image formed with a spherical toner is conveyed toward the fixing nip in a low temperature and low humidity environment the toner on the recording medium may scatter in the moving direction of the recording medium immediately before the toner image reaches the fixing nip.

The related art image forming apparatus further includes a guide for guiding the recording medium bearing the toner image from the transfer nip toward the fixing unit. While the guide guides the recording medium the recording medium scrubs the guide. Friction between the recording medium and the guide may charge the guide with the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner and may charge the backside of the recording medium with the same polarity as that of the toner. The electric charge having the same polarity as that of the toner of the charged backside of the recording medium counteracts the electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner i.e. the electric charge applied by the transfer bias roller. Thus the backside of the recording medium has a decreased amount of electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner. This occurs easily in a low temperature and low humidity environment. The discharger also removes the electric charge from the backside of the recording medium. Thus the recording medium electrostatically attracts the toner with a decreased attracting force. As a result the above mentioned toner scatter problem is caused.

This specification describes below an image forming apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. In one aspect of the present invention the image forming apparatus includes an image carrier a transferor a fixing unit and a guide. The image carrier carries a toner image. The transferor opposes the image carrier to form a transfer nip and transfers the toner image on the image carrier onto a recording medium at the transfer nip. The fixing unit fixes the toner image on the recording medium. The guide guides the recording medium bearing the toner image from the transferor toward the fixing unit and includes a surface portion directly contacting the recording medium. The surface portion includes a material for charging the recording medium to have a polarity opposite to the polarity of a toner forming the toner image.

This specification further describes a guide for guiding a recording medium bearing a toner image from a transferor toward a fixing unit according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. In one aspect of the present invention the guide includes a discharger and a surface portion. The discharger discharges the recording medium immediately after the transferor transfers the toner image onto the recording medium. The surface portion directly contacts the recording medium and includes a material for charging the recording medium to have a polarity opposite to the polarity of a toner forming the toner image.

In describing exemplary embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views in particular to an image forming apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is explained.

As illustrated in the image forming apparatus includes an image forming unit an exposure unit an intermediate transfer belt first transfer bias rollers Y M C and K rollers and a paper tray a pick up roller a feeding roller pair a registration roller pair a second transfer bias roller a second transfer power source a controller a guide a belt cleaner a fixing unit and an output roller pair . The image forming unit includes photoconductors Y M C and K chargers Y M C and K development units Y M C and K and cleaners Y M C and K. The cleaners Y M C and K respectively include cleaning blades Yb Mb Cb and Kb. The fixing unit includes a fixing roller and a pressing roller . The belt cleaner includes a cleaning blade

The image forming apparatus may be a copying machine a facsimile machine a printer a multifunction printer having copying printing scanning and facsimile functions or the like. According to this non limiting exemplary embodiment of the present invention the image forming apparatus functions as a color printer for printing a color image on a recording medium using an electrophotographic method.

The image forming unit forms toner images in yellow magenta cyan and black colors. Each of the photoconductors Y M C and K has a drum like shape and rotates in a rotating direction A at a circumferential speed of about 150 mm sec. The photoconductors Y M C and K are disposed in the image forming apparatus in such a manner that rotating shafts of the photoconductors Y M C and K horizontally extend from the front to the back of the image forming apparatus . The rotating shafts of the photoconductors Y M C and K are provided so as to be parallel to each other on the same horizontal plane.

The chargers Y M C and K the development units Y M C and K and the cleaners Y M C and K are respectively disposed around the photoconductors Y M C and K. The chargers Y M C and K uniformly charge surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K respectively. According to this non limiting exemplary embodiment each of the chargers Y M C and K includes a charging roller not shown which contacts the surface of each of the photoconductors Y M C and K and rotates while being driven by each of the rotating photoconductors Y M C and K so as to charge the surface of each of the photoconductors Y M C and K. However the chargers Y M C and K may be configured to respectively charge the surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K without contacting the surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K. A high voltage power source not shown applies alternating and direct current biases to each of the chargers Y M C and K. Thus the chargers Y M C and K uniformly charge the surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K respectively so that each of the photoconductors Y M C and K has a surface potential of about 500 V.

The exposure unit is disposed under the image forming unit and emits light Y M C and K upward to irradiate the charged surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K according to image data resulting in formation of an electrostatic latent image on the surface of each of the photoconductors Y M C and K. The image data includes yellow magenta cyan and black image data. Namely the exposure unit irradiates with the light Y M C and K the surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K according to the yellow magenta cyan and black image data to form electrostatic latent images corresponding to the yellow magenta cyan and black image data respectively. The exposure unit may include a laser beam scanner using a laser diode.

The development units Y M C and K respectively develop the electrostatic latent images formed on the surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K with yellow magenta cyan and black toners to form yellow magenta cyan and black toner images. According to this non limiting exemplary embodiment each of the development units Y M C and K develops the electrostatic latent image with a two component non magnetic developer including a toner. Specifically each of the development units Y M C and K includes a developing roller not shown which contacts each of the photoconductors Y M C and K for carrying the developer. A high voltage power source not shown applies a predetermined developing bias to the developing roller so as to move the toner in the developer carried by the developing roller onto the electrostatic latent image formed on each of the photoconductors Y M C and K. The toner adheres to the electrostatic latent image. Thus a toner image corresponding to the electrostatic latent image forms on the surface of each of the photoconductors Y M C and K.

The intermediate transfer belt is disposed above the image forming unit . The yellow magenta cyan and black toner images respectively formed on the surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K are transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt while superimposed to form a color toner image. The intermediate transfer belt has an endless belt like shape and is looped over the first transfer bias rollers Y M C and K and the rollers and . A driving force is transmitted from a driver not shown to the roller to drive and rotate the roller . The rotating roller rotates the intermediate transfer belt in a rotating direction B. Namely the roller supports and drives the intermediate transfer belt . However any one of the other rollers may support and drive the intermediate transfer belt .

The intermediate transfer belt includes one or more layers preferably including a material such as PVDFs polyvinylidene fluoride ETFEs ethylene tetrafluoroethylene copolymers PIs polyimide and PCs polycarbonate in which a conductive material including carbon black and the like is dispersed to control the volume resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt in a range of from about 108 cm to about 1012 cm and the surface resistivity in a range of from about 108 to about 1015 . When the volume resistivity and the surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt respectively exceed the above described ranges a higher transfer bias needs to be applied to the intermediate transfer belt resulting in an increased power cost. Further when a higher transfer bias is applied to the intermediate transfer belt the electric potential of the intermediate transfer belt increases to an extent which can not be reduced by self discharge. Therefore a discharging mechanism for discharging the intermediate transfer belt is needed resulting in increased manufacturing costs. When the volume resistivity and the surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt do not respectively reach the above described ranges the electric potential of the intermediate transfer belt can be decreased quickly by self discharge. However a transfer current which flows when the toner image is transferred may easily flow along a surface of the intermediate transfer belt resulting in occurrence of toner scattering. Therefore it is preferable for the intermediate transfer belt to have the volume resistivity and the surface resistivity in the above described ranges. The volume resistivity and the surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt were measured by the following method 

The intermediate transfer belt may further include a releasing layer on the surface of the intermediate transfer belt if necessary. The releasing layer may include fluoroplastic such as ETFEs PTFEs polytetrafluoroethylene PVDFs PFAs perfluoroalkoxy resins FEPs tetrafluoroethylene propylene fluoride copolymers and PVFs polyvinyl fluoride . However the fluoroplastic is not limited thereto. The intermediate transfer belt can be produced by a cast molding method a centrifugal molding method or the like. The surface of the intermediate transfer belt may be polished if necessary.

A high voltage power source not shown applies a first transfer bias to the first transfer bias rollers Y M C and K over which the intermediate transfer belt is looped. The first transfer bias rollers Y M C and K contact an inner circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt and respectively oppose the photoconductors Y M C and K with the intermediate transfer belt therebetween to each form a first transfer nip. The first transfer nips are respectively formed between the photoconductors Y M C and K and an outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt . Each of the first transfer bias rollers Y M C and K includes an elastic layer to form the first transfer nip. The first transfer bias rollers Y M C and K perform a first transfer at the first transfer nips. Namely the first transfer bias rollers Y M C and K respectively transfer the yellow magenta cyan and black toner images respectively formed on the surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K onto the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt superimposing the toner images thereon.

The cleaners Y M C and K respectively remove residual toners remaining on the surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K after the yellow magenta cyan and black toner images respectively formed on the surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K are transferred onto the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt . The cleaning blades Yb Mb Cb and Kb contact the surfaces of the respective photoconductors Y M C and K to scrape the residual toner remaining on the surfaces of the photoconductors Y M C and K.

The paper tray is loaded with a recording medium e.g. sheets P . The pick up roller feeds a sheet P from the paper tray toward the feeding roller pair . The feeding roller pair further feeds the sheet P toward the registration roller pair .

The second transfer bias roller contacts the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt and opposes the roller via the intermediate transfer belt to form a second transfer nip. The second transfer nip is formed between the second transfer bias roller and the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt . The registration roller pair feeds the sheet P to the second transfer nip such that the color toner image formed on the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt is transferred to the proper position of the sheet P at the second transfer nip. The second transfer bias roller performs second transfer at the second transfer nip. Namely the second transfer bias roller transfers the color toner image formed on the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt onto the sheet P at the second transfer nip.

The second transfer bias roller is connected to the second transfer power source . The second transfer power source applies a second transfer bias to the second transfer bias roller . The second transfer power source is connected to the controller for controlling the second transfer bias. The second transfer bias roller includes a core and an elastic layer coated on the core. The core includes a metal e.g. stainless steel SUS and or the like . The elastic layer includes polyurethane and a conductive material and has a resistivity in a range of from about 106 to about 1010 . When the resistivity of the second transfer bias roller exceeds the above described range a transfer current may not easily flow and a higher voltage needs to be applied to the second transfer bias roller to well perform image transferring resulting in an increased power cost. Further when a higher voltage is applied to the second transfer bias roller discharge may occur in spaces just before or after the second transfer nip in a sheet conveyance direction resulting in formation of white spots on a halftone image. When the resistivity of the second transfer bias roller does not reach the above described range image transferring cannot be performed well particularly when the image includes both an image formed by superimposing a plurality of different color toner images and a single color toner image. The reason therefore is as follows. When the resistivity of the second transfer bias roller is low and a low voltage is applied as the second transfer bias to effectively transfer the portion of the image formed by the single color toner image a proper transfer current sufficient for properly transferring the portion of the image formed by superimposing the plurality of the different color toner images cannot be flown. In contrast application of a high voltage as the second transfer bias may provide a transfer current sufficient for transferring the portion of the image formed by superimposing the plurality of the different color toner images but may not provide a proper transfer current for the portion of the image formed by the single color toner image due to excessive transfer current flow resulting in decreased transfer efficiency. The resistivity of the second transfer bias roller is calculated based on a current flown when a voltage of about 1 000 V is applied between the core and a conductive metal plate wherein a load of about 4.9 N i.e. the both ends of the core receive a total load of about 9.8 N is applied to each of the ends of the core of the second transfer bias roller .

A driving gear not shown drives and rotates the second transfer bias roller at a circumferential speed similar to the circumferential speed of the intermediate transfer belt . The second transfer bias roller rotates in a rotating direction such that the second transfer bias roller is driven by the rotating intermediate transfer belt .

The second transfer bias roller and the intermediate transfer belt feed the sheet P which bears the color toner image transferred from the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt at the second transfer nip toward the guide . The guide includes discharging teeth described below at a head of the guide . The discharging teeth discharge the charges of the sheet P. The guide separates the sheet P from the intermediate transfer belt and guides the sheet P toward the fixing unit .

In the fixing unit the sheet P is fed toward a fixing nip formed between the fixing roller and the pressing roller . At the fixing nip the fixing roller and the pressing roller apply heat and pressure to the sheet P bearing the color toner image to fix the color toner image on the sheet P. Each of the fixing roller and the pressing roller has a surface resistivity not lower than about 107 and a volume resistivity not lower than about 107 cm. The fixing roller and the pressing roller feed the sheet P bearing the fixed color toner image toward the output roller pair . The output roller pair feeds the sheet P to outside of the image forming apparatus .

The belt cleaner opposes the roller via the intermediate transfer belt . The belt cleaner removes a residual toner remaining on the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt even after the color toner image formed on the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt is transferred onto the sheet P. The cleaning blade contacts the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt to scrape the residual toner off the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt .

According to this non limiting exemplary embodiment a user may specify a monochrome mode a two color mode a three color mode or a full color mode on a control panel not shown of the image forming apparatus . The monochrome mode forms an image by using any one of yellow magenta cyan and black toner images. The two color mode forms an image by superimposing any two of yellow magenta cyan and black toner images. The three color mode forms an image by superimposing any three of yellow magenta cyan and black toner images. The full color mode forms an image by superimposing yellow magenta cyan and black toner images.

According to this non limiting exemplary embodiment the image forming apparatus uses a polymerized toner produced by a polymerization method. The polymerized toner may preferably have a shape factor SF 1 in a range of from about 100 to about 180 and a shape factor SF 2 in a range of from about 100 to about 180.

The shape factors SF 1 and SF 2 of a toner are determined by photographing the toner particles with a scanning electron microscope S 800 available from Hitachi Ltd. and analyzing the photographed images with an image analyzer LUZEX III available from NIRECO Corporation.

When toner particles have a sphere like shape the toner particles contact each other at a small area. Namely the toner particles nearly make point contact with each other and therefore the attracting force between the toner particles becomes weaker. As a result the fluidity of the toner particles becomes greater. The toner particles also contact the surface of each of the photoconductor Y M C and K and the intermediate transfer belt at a small area. Namely the toner particles nearly make point contact with the surface of each of the photoconductors Y M C and K and the intermediate transfer belt and the attracting force between the toner particles and each of the photoconductors Y M C and K and the intermediate transfer belt becomes weaker. As a result the toner particles can be transferred onto and from the intermediate transfer belt at an increased transfer rate. When any one of the shape factors SF 1 and SF 2 exceeds 180 the toner particle may be transferred onto and from the intermediate transfer belt at a decreased transfer rate. Further the toner particles adhered to the intermediate transfer belt cannot be easily removed therefrom.

The toner for use in the image forming apparatus of the present invention preferably has a volume average particle size in a range of from about 4 m to about 10 m. When the toner has a particle size smaller than the above described range it can easily cause a background development problem. In particular the toner particles can stain the sheet P. In addition the toner particles have a decreased flowability and easily agglomerate thereby forming hollow images. In contrast when the toner has a particle size greater than the above described range the toner particles scatter and resolution of an image deteriorates i.e. a high resolution image cannot be formed . According to this non limiting exemplary embodiment the image forming apparatus uses toner particles having a volume average particle size of about 6.5 m.

As illustrated in the guide includes a base ribs a discharging plate and a guide sheet . The discharging plate includes discharging teeth

The base includes a low cost insulating material such as ABS acrylonitrile butadiene styrene resins. The ribs include a plurality of insulating ribs integrally molded with the base . The discharging plate includes a plurality of discharging teeth having a protruding shape. The guide sheet is disposed on the base . The discharging plate is connected to a power source not shown for applying a discharging bias having the same polarity i.e. a polarity opposite to a polarity of the second transfer bias as the polarity of the toner used. According to this non limiting exemplary embodiment the discharging bias has a negative polarity. The power source applies the discharging bias to the discharging plate so that a tip of each of the discharging teeth causes corona discharge to discharge the backside of the sheet P which has passed the second transfer nip and which bears a toner image transferred from the intermediate transfer belt on its front side.

As illustrated in the discharging plate includes stainless steel SUS having a rectangle like shape and a thickness of about 0.2 mm. One side edge of the discharging plate has a serrated shape i.e. the discharging teeth . According to this non limiting exemplary embodiment the pitch between two adjacent discharging teeth is about 3 mm. As illustrated in a part of the discharging plate other than the discharging teeth is placed inside the base . The ribs are integrally molded with the base and each of the ribs is disposed between two adjacent discharging teeth . The ribs protrude in a direction perpendicular to a longitudinal direction M of the discharging plate . Namely the ribs protrude along a normal line of a surface of the discharging plate . Thus when the guide is disposed near and downstream from the second transfer nip in the sheet conveyance direction the ribs protrude farther than the discharging teeth toward the backside of the sheet P.

The guide sheet is disposed on the base and contacts the sheet P. The guide sheet is attached to the base with a double faced adhesive tape. The guide sheet includes a material for charging the sheet P to have the same polarity as the polarity of the second transfer bias that is a polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P by friction between the guide sheet and the sheet P.

As illustrated in the guide is disposed downstream from the second transfer nip in the sheet conveyance direction in such a manner that the longitudinal direction of the discharging plate is perpendicular to the sheet conveyance direction and is parallel to a direction to which a shaft of the second transfer bias roller extends. As further illustrated in the guide sheet is disposed downstream from the ribs depicted in in the sheet conveyance direction. Thus the insulating base can shield the discharging plate from the second transfer bias roller . As a result when the power source applies the discharging bias to the discharging plate the discharging teeth depicted in can stably cause corona discharge without being affected by the second transfer bias roller .

The sheet P discharged by the discharging teeth separates from the intermediate transfer belt and contacts the guide sheet . The sheet P scrubs the guide sheet while the sheet P is conveyed from the second transfer nip toward the fixing unit depicted in . The scrub generates friction between the sheet P and the guide sheet and charges the sheet P to have the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner i.e. a positive polarity in this non limiting exemplary embodiment . Namely the backside of the sheet P carries an increased amount of electric charge with the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner. Thus the sheet P can electrostatically carry the toner image stably. As a result when the sheet P contacts the fixing roller depicted in scatter of the toner from the sheet P onto the fixing roller can be suppressed.

The following describes test results showing a relationship between a surface resistivity of the guide sheet and an amount of toner scattered from a sheet P when the guide sheet includes a polycarbonate. A plurality of guide sheets having different surface resistivities were prepared by changing the amount of carbon black in the polycarbonate. The plurality of guide sheets were left overnight in different environments. An image forming operation was performed in a test image forming apparatus not using the guide sheet and in test image forming apparatuses using different guide sheets. Whether or not the toner scattered from the sheet P onto the fixing roller was visually checked. Table 1 illustrates the test results.

In the above table character N represents that the toner did not scatter from the sheet P onto the fixing roller . Character S represents that the toner slightly scattered from the sheet P onto the fixing roller . Character Y represents that the toner scattered from the sheet P onto the fixing roller . Without guide sheet means that tests were performed in the test image forming apparatus which does not include the guide sheet but includes the base including an ABS resin and having a surface resistivity of 1014 .

As illustrated in Table 1 in the test image forming apparatus not including the guide sheet the toner scattered from the sheet P onto the fixing roller under a low temperature and low humidity condition of 10 C. and 15 RH. The toner scattered because friction between the sheet P and the base including the ABS resin charged the sheet P to have the same polarity as the polarity of the toner on the sheet P when the sheet P scrubbed the base . As a result friction between the sheet P and the base decreased the amount of electric charge on the sheet P having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P when the sheet P bearing a toner image transferred from the intermediate transfer belt was conveyed toward the fixing unit while scrubbing the base . Thus the sheet P had a decreased force for electrostatically attracting the toner. In the low temperature and low humidity environment friction between the sheet P and the base increased the amount of electric charge on the sheet P having the same polarity as the polarity of the toner on the sheet P. The sheet P could not electrostatically attract the toner. Therefore the toner scattered from the sheet P onto the fixing roller while the sheet P was conveyed in the fixing unit and then the scattered toner was adhered to the sheet P again.

When the guide sheet including the polycarbonate was used the toner did not scatter from the sheet P onto the fixing roller even in the low temperature and low humidity environment. The reason the toner did not scatter from the sheet P onto the fixing roller is that the polycarbonate charged the sheet P to have the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P by friction between the sheet P and the guide sheet when the sheet P scrubbed the guide sheet . As a result when the sheet P bearing a toner image transferred from the intermediate transfer belt was conveyed toward the fixing unit while scrubbing the guide sheet friction between the sheet P and the guide sheet increased the amount of electric charge on the sheet P having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P. Thus the sheet P had an increased force for electrostatically attracting the toner. Therefore even in the low temperature and low humidity environment when the sheet P was conveyed in the fixing unit the toner did not scatter from the sheet P onto the fixing roller

When the guide sheet had the surface resistivity of 107 or 108 the toner scattered from the sheet P onto the fixing roller in a high temperature and high humidity environment of 27 C. and 80 RH. Since the guide sheet has a low surface resistivity and electric currents flow easily in the high temperature and high humidity environment the electric charge with the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P was transferred from the sheet P to the guide sheet while the sheet P contacted the guide sheet . Thus as the sheet P was conveyed toward the fixing unit the amount of the electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P decreased. As a result the sheet P had a decreased force for electrostatically attracting the toner and thereby the toner scattered from the sheet P onto the fixing roller

When the guide sheet had the surface resistivity of 109 or higher the toner did not scatter from the sheet P onto the fixing roller in any environment. The reason therefor is considered to be that the electric charge was not transferred from the sheet P to the guide sheet even in the high temperature and high humidity environment. As a result the sheet P maintained a force for electrically attracting the toner and the toner did not scatter from the sheet P onto the fixing roller

The guide sheet can include a PET polyethylene terephthalate . Tests were performed with test image forming apparatuses including the guide sheet made of a PET in such a manner as described above for the case using the guide sheet made of a PC polycarbonate . The test results showed that similar to the above mentioned case the toner did not scatter from the sheet P onto the fixing roller in any environment when the guide sheet had the surface resistivity of 109 or higher.

The guide sheet can include a PVDF polyvinylidene fluoride . Tests were performed with test image forming apparatuses including the guide sheet made of a PVDF in such a manner as described above for the case using the guide sheet made of a PC. The test results showed that similar to the above mentioned case the toner did not scatter from the sheet P onto the fixing roller in any environment when the guide sheet had the surface resistivity of 109 or higher.

The image forming apparatus may be a copying machine a facsimile machine a printer a multifunction printer having copying printing scanning and facsimile functions or the like. According to this non limiting exemplary embodiment of the present invention the image forming apparatus functions as a color printer for printing a color image on a recording medium using the electrophotographic method.

The image forming unit forms toner images in yellow magenta cyan and black colors. The photoconductive belt has a belt like shape and is looped over the driving roller and the driven rollers and . A driver not shown drives and rotates the driving roller . The rotating driving roller rotates the photoconductive belt in a rotating direction I. The rotating photoconductive belt rotates the driven rollers and .

The charger the exposure unit the development units Y M C and K the intermediate transfer belt unit and the cleaner are disposed around the photoconductive belt . The charger uniformly charges a surface of the photoconductive belt . The exposure unit emits light L onto the charged surface of the photoconductive belt according to image data so as to form electrostatic latent images on the surface of the photoconductive belt . The development units Y M C and K respectively develop the electrostatic latent images formed on the surface of the photoconductive belt with yellow magenta cyan and black toners to form yellow magenta cyan and black toner images.

The intermediate transfer belt unit carries the yellow magenta cyan and black toner images transferred from the photoconductive belt . The intermediate transfer belt has an endless belt like shape and is looped over the first transfer bias roller the driving roller and the driven rollers and . A driver not shown drives and rotates the driving roller and the rotating driving roller rotates the intermediate transfer belt in a rotating direction J. The rotating intermediate transfer belt rotates the driven rollers and . The first transfer bias roller opposes the driven roller via the intermediate transfer belt and the photoconductive belt so that the intermediate transfer belt and the photoconductive belt contact each other. A first transfer nip is formed between the intermediate transfer belt and the photoconductive belt . The first transfer bias roller performs first transfer at the first transfer nip. Namely the first transfer bias roller transfers the yellow magenta cyan and black toner images formed on the surface of the photoconductive belt onto an outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt to superimpose the toner images thereon. Thus a color toner image is formed on the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt . The mark sensor is provided on the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt . The sensor detects the mark sensor so that an image forming process for forming each of the yellow magenta cyan and black toner images starts at a proper time based on the detection result. Thus the yellow magenta cyan and black toner images can be properly superimposed on the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt . The cleaner removes a residual toner remaining on the surface of the photoconductive belt even after the toner images formed on the surface of the photoconductive belt are transferred onto the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt

The second transfer bias roller opposes the driven roller via the intermediate transfer belt to form a second transfer nip. A driving gear not shown drives the second transfer bias roller to rotate the second transfer bias roller at a circumferential speed substantially the same as the intermediate transfer belt . The base of the guide holds a part of the second transfer bias roller . The contact separate mechanism causes the second transfer bias roller to contact to and separate from the intermediate transfer belt via the base

The pick up roller and the feeding roller pair feed a sheet P from the paper tray toward the registration roller pair . The registration roller pair feeds the sheet P to the second transfer nip at a time when a foremost head of the color toner image formed by the superimposed yellow magenta cyan and black toner images on the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt enters the second transfer nip. The contact separate mechanism presses the second transfer bias roller onto the sheet P so that the second transfer bias roller contacts the sheet P at a time when the second transfer bias roller transfers the color toner image from the intermediate transfer belt onto the sheet P. The second transfer bias roller separates from the intermediate transfer belt when the second transfer bias roller does not perform the transfer operation. Specifically a predetermined bias voltage is applied to the second transfer bias roller . The contact separate mechanism presses the second transfer bias roller onto the sheet P so that the second transfer bias roller contacts the backside of the sheet P the backside does not face the intermediate transfer belt . The second transfer bias roller applies a second transfer bias to the sheet P to transfer the color toner image from the intermediate transfer belt onto the sheet P. The second transfer bias roller is connected to the second transfer power source . The second transfer power source applies the second transfer bias to the second transfer bias roller . The second transfer power source is connected to the controller for controlling the second transfer bias.

The belt cleaner opposes the driven roller via the intermediate transfer belt and removes a residual toner remaining on the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt after the color toner image formed on the outer circumferential surface of the intermediate transfer belt is transferred onto the sheet P. The guide guides the sheet P bearing the color toner image toward the fixing unit .

In the fixing unit the sheet P is fed toward the fixing nip formed between the fixing roller and the pressing roller which oppose each other. At the fixing nip the fixing roller and the pressing roller apply heat and pressure to the sheet P bearing the color toner image to fix the color toner image on the sheet P. The fixing roller and the pressing roller feed the sheet P bearing the fixed color toner image thereon toward the output roller pair . The output roller pair feeds the sheet P to outside of the image forming apparatus

The guide is disposed near and downstream from the second transfer nip in the sheet conveyance direction. The guide includes the same structure as the guide depicted in . Therefore even when the sheet P scrubs the guide while the sheet P is guided by the guide and conveyed toward the fixing unit friction between the sheet P and the guide cannot decrease the amount of electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P. As a result scatter of the toner from the sheet P onto the fixing roller can be substantially suppressed when the sheet P is conveyed in the fixing unit .

The image forming apparatus may be a copying machine a facsimile machine a printer a multifunction printer having copying printing scanning and facsimile functions or the like. According to this non limiting exemplary embodiment of the present invention the image forming apparatus functions as a printer for printing a monochrome image on a recording medium using the electrophotographic method.

The image forming unit forms a toner image. The photoconductor has a drum like shape and rotates in a rotating direction K. The charger the exposure unit the development unit the transfer bias roller and the cleaner are disposed around the photoconductor . The charger uniformly charges a surface of the photoconductor . The exposure unit emits light L onto the charged surface of the photoconductor according to image data so as to form an electrostatic latent image on the surface of the photoconductor . The development unit develops the electrostatic latent image formed on the surface of the photoconductor with a toner to form a toner image. The transfer bias roller opposes and contacts the photoconductor to form a transfer nip between the transfer bias roller and the photoconductor contacting each other.

The pick up roller and the feeding roller pair feed a sheet P from the paper tray toward the registration roller pair . The registration roller pair feeds the sheet P to the transfer nip at a time when the toner image formed on the surface of the photoconductor is properly transferred onto the sheet P. The transfer bias roller transfers the toner image formed on the surface of the photoconductor onto the sheet P. The transfer bias roller is connected to the transfer power source . The transfer power source applies a transfer bias to the transfer bias roller . The transfer power source is connected to the controller for controlling the transfer bias. The cleaner removes a residual toner remaining on the surface of the photoconductor even after the toner image formed on the surface of the photoconductor is transferred onto the sheet P. The guide guides the sheet P bearing the toner image toward the fixing unit .

In the fixing unit the sheet P is fed toward a fixing nip formed between the fixing roller and the pressing roller which oppose each other. At the fixing nip the fixing roller and the pressing roller apply heat and pressure to the sheet P bearing the toner image to fix the toner image on the sheet P.

The guide is disposed near and downstream from the transfer nip in the sheet conveyance direction. The guide includes the same structure as the guide depicted in . Therefore even when the sheet P scrubs the guide while the sheet P is guided by the guide and conveyed toward the fixing unit friction between the sheet P and the guide does not decrease an amount of electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P. As a result scatter of the toner from the sheet P onto the fixing roller can be suppressed when the sheet P is conveyed in the fixing unit .

As seen in and in the image forming apparatuses and the photoconductors Y M C and K the photoconductive belt the photoconductor and the intermediate transfer belts and carry a toner image. However an intermediate transfer drum and or the like can also be used for carrying a toner image. The intermediate transfer drum may include a metal cylinder. A rubber having a medium resistivity may cover a surface of the metal cylinder.

As seen in and in the image forming apparatuses and the first transfer bias rollers Y M C K and the second transfer bias rollers and and the transfer bias roller transfer a toner image. However a transfer belt a transfer brush a transfer blade a transfer plate and or the like can also be used for transferring a toner image. For example the transfer brush may include a rotational transfer brush which rotates and contacts the sheet P to transfer a toner image onto the sheet P.

According to the above described embodiments when a sheet P bearing a toner image scrubs the guide or while being conveyed from the second transfer nip or the transfer nip to the fixing unit friction between the sheet P and the guide or charges the sheet P to have the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner. Thus the sheet P can electrostatically carry the toner image effectively. Therefore the toner is prevented from electrostatically moving from the sheet P to the fixing roller easily. Namely scatter of the toner from the sheet P onto the fixing roller can be suppressed.

The guide or at least includes a surface portion which directly contacts the sheet P and includes a PET a PC or a PVDF. Thus even in a low temperature and low humidity environment scatter of the toner from the sheet P onto the fixing roller can be suppressed.

The surface portion directly contacting the sheet P includes the guide sheet depicted in . A portion which does not directly contact the sheet P may include a material which is selected regardless of the polarity with which the sheet P is charged due to friction between the sheet P and the guide or . For example the portion which does not directly contact the sheet P may include a low cost insulating material such as ABS resins. Thus the guide or can be produced at decreased manufacturing costs. The guide sheet can be attached to the base with a double faced adhesive tape. Thus the guide sheet can be attached to the base at decreased manufacturing costs with enhanced precision.

The surface portion directly contacting the sheet P has a surface resistivity of about 109 or higher. Even in a high temperature and high humidity environment the electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P is not transferred from the sheet P to the guide or . Thus when the sheet P is conveyed toward the fixing unit the amount of the electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P does not decrease. As a result the force of the sheet P for electrostatically attracting the toner does not decrease. Even in the high temperature and high humidity environment the toner is not electrostatically transferred from the sheet P to the fixing roller easily when the sheet P is conveyed in the fixing unit . Thus scatter of the toner from the sheet P onto the fixing roller can be suppressed.

The guide or includes the discharging teeth depicted in for discharging the sheet P immediately after the second transfer bias roller depicted in or depicted in or the transfer bias roller depicted in transfers the toner image onto the sheet P thereby preventing the sheet P from being jammed when the sheet P does not separate from the intermediate transfer belt depicted in or depicted in or the photoconductor depicted in . The electric charge is not abruptly transferred from the backside of the sheet P to a protruding member and or a metallic member disposed near the second transfer bias roller or or the transfer bias roller and the fixing unit thereby preventing a defective toner image from being formed on the sheet P. However the discharging teeth remove the electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner from the sheet P and the sheet P cannot electrostatically attract the toner easily. Therefore in the low temperature and low humidity environment in which the toner has a decreased amount of the electric charge the toner is not electrostatically attracted to the sheet P and is electrostatically scattered onto the fixing roller . To address this problem the surface portion of the guide or which is scrubbed by the sheet P while the sheet P is conveyed from the second transfer bias roller or or the transfer bias roller toward the fixing unit includes a material for charging the sheet P to have the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P by friction between the sheet P and the surface portion scrubbed by the sheet P. Thus even when the discharging teeth remove the electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner from the sheet P friction between the sheet P and the surface portion scrubbed by the sheet P can increase the amount of the electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P so as to cause the sheet P to electrostatically attract the toner easily. As a result the fixing roller does not electrostatically scatter the toner from the sheet P. Namely even when the discharging teeth remove the electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner from the sheet P scatter of the toner from the sheet P onto the fixing roller can be suppressed and a proper toner image can be formed on the sheet P.

In the image forming apparatus or plural color toner images are transferred onto a sheet P via the intermediate transfer belt or in an indirect transfer method. Namely plural color toner images formed on the photoconductors Y M C and K or the photoconductive belt are transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt or such that the toner images are superimposed thereon. The superimposed toner images are further transferred onto the sheet P. A larger variety of sheet materials can be used in the indirect transfer method compared to a direct transfer method in which plural color toner images formed on photoconductors are directly transferred onto a sheet such that the toner images are superimposed thereon. In the direct transfer method a conveying belt opposing the photoconductors electrostatically attracts the sheet. The conveying belt conveys the sheet so that the toner images formed on the photoconductors are transferred onto the sheet at transfer nips formed between the photoconductors and the conveying belt. The conveying belt may not stably attract thick paper which is not easily charged. The thick paper may slip on the conveying belt and may not be conveyed to the transfer nips at predetermined times when the toner images formed on the photoconductors are properly transferred onto the thick paper such that the toner images are superimposed thereon. For example the thick paper may be conveyed to the transfer nips at delayed times. As a result the toner images are misaligned when the toner images are transferred on the thick paper. To form a high quality image on a sheet the thick paper cannot be used in an image forming apparatus using the direct transfer method. In the image forming apparatus depicted in or depicted in using the indirect transfer method toner images are transferred onto a sheet P at the second transfer nip. Even when the sheet P is conveyed to the second transfer nip at a slightly delayed time the toner images which form the color toner image may not be transferred onto the sheet P thereby preventing formation of misaligned color toner images. In the indirect transfer method the toner images are not misaligned when the toner images are transferred on thick paper. Thus the indirect transfer method can use a larger variety of sheet materials compared to the direct transfer method.

The intermediate transfer belt depicted in or depicted in may be formed of a single layer which can be prepared at an increased manufacturing yield. Thus the intermediate transfer belt or can be manufactured at low costs. In addition the volume resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt or can be easily managed thereby reducing variations of the transferor in the transfer property.

The intermediate transfer belt or may also be formed of a plurality of layers having a plurality of functions. For example when the intermediate transfer belt or includes an outermost layer including a material having high releasing property and resistivity the intermediate transfer belt or can provide an improved transfer property and thereby the toner scattering problem is not caused.

The image forming apparatuses and depicted in and respectively use a polymerized toner produced by a polymerization method. The polymerized toner has a shape factor SF 1 in a range of from about 100 to about 180 and a shape factor SF 2 in a range of from about 100 to about 180. As described above a polymerized toner can provide increased transfer efficiency. However toner particles of the polymerized toner do not tightly adhere to each other or to a sheet P. Thus the toner easily scatters from the sheet P onto the fixing roller . To address this problem the surface portion of the guide or which is scrubbed by the sheet P conveyed toward the fixing unit includes a material for charging the sheet P to have the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner by friction between the sheet P and the surface portion scrubbed by the sheet P. Thus the sheet P can electrostatically attract the toner easily while being conveyed toward the fixing unit . Even such a polymerized toner including toner particles which are not tightly adhered to the sheet P can suppress scatter of the toner from the sheet P onto the fixing roller due to an electrostatic force of the fixing roller . As a result the image forming apparatuses and can form a high quality image even with the polymerized toner.

According to the above described embodiments when a sheet P bearing a toner image scrubs the guide or depicted in and respectively while being conveyed from the second transfer nip or the transfer nip to the fixing unit friction between the sheet P and the guide or charges the sheet P to have the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner. Thus the sheet P can electrostatically carry the toner image with an increased force. Therefore the toner does not electrostatically move from the sheet P to the fixing roller easily even in a low temperature and low humidity environment. Namely scatter of the toner from the sheet P onto the fixing roller can be suppressed. A high voltage power source for applying a bias to the fixing roller is not needed resulting in decreased manufacturing costs. In addition the sheet P has an increased force for electrostatically carrying the toner image while being conveyed from the second transfer nip or the transfer nip to the fixing unit . Therefore even when the image forming apparatus or uses a toner including toner particles not tightly adhered to each other or to the sheet P the toner does not electrostatically move from the sheet P to the fixing roller easily and thereby scatter of the toner from the sheet P onto the fixing roller can be suppressed. Even when the discharging teeth remove the electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner from the sheet P friction between the sheet P and the guide or scrubbed by the sheet P increases the amount of the electric charge having the polarity opposite to the polarity of the toner on the sheet P while the sheet P is conveyed toward the fixing unit . As a result the sheet P can have an increased force for electrostatically carrying the toner image while the sheet P is conveyed from the second transfer nip or the transfer nip to the fixing unit . Thus scatter of the toner from the sheet P onto the fixing roller can be suppressed.

The present invention has been described above with reference to specific exemplary embodiments. Note that the present invention is not limited to the details of the embodiments described above but various modifications and enhancements are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is therefore to be understood that the present invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. For example elements and or features of different illustrative exemplary embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of the present invention.

