---

title: High surface area polymer actuator with gas mitigating components
abstract: A polymer actuator component and a polymer actuator assembly, power supply and method of using the activation are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09500186&OS=09500186&RS=09500186
owner: MEDIPACS, INC.
number: 09500186
owner_city: Tucson
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110131
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 300 345 filed Feb. 1 2010 and from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 332 760 filed May 8 2010 and from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 432 108 filed Jan. 12 2011 the contents of which are incorporated hereby by reference

This invention was made in part with Government support under contract number 0848528 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to volume changing materials. More particularly the invention concerns polymeric materials that change volume in response to a pH change. The materials advantageously are employed in activators that may be used for example as actuators for pumps for administration of therapeutic liquids and will be described in connection with such utility although other utilities are contemplated.

Actuators are devices that generate displacement or force for various applications. These can take on many forms such as motors air cylinders hydraulic cylinders and electromagnetic solenoids to name a few. These actuators are utilized for many different applications and have been in use for decades.

A particular class of polymeric based actuators that have been developed are polymer actuators based on elastic epoxy hydrogel polymers. Such activators work by creating ionic imbalances near electrodes using positive or negative electrical charges at an electrode in contact with or in close proximity to the polymer and an ionic species of the electrolyte. By increasing the density or the number of the amine groups such as secondary and primary amines an increase in swelling pressure is attained in the hydrogel. This also has an effect on the swelling and deswelling times.

One way of achieving this is by incorporating Polyamidoamine PAMAM polyether dendrimers poly propylene imine PPI dendrimers amino functionalized dendrimers or combinations thereof as part of the polymer structure. Dendrimers are highly branched and offer superior numbers of polymer linkage points. They also are commercially available with primary amino surface groups and core amino groups. This makes engineering of the hydrogel possible so that specific performance parameters such as the pressure the gel can produce is determined by formula ratios of materials or by controlling the organization size and number of branches in polymer structure itself. Hydrogel density and porosity is controlled by the amount of amine functionality and molecular weight of the polyether amines. Hydrogel density and porosity is also controlled by amount of polyethylene glycol diglycidyl ether and or by the ratio of HO or solvent used to polymerize the materials.

A preferred ether for this gel is polyethyleneglycol dodecylether polyEGDE but other ethers also can be used such as cyclohexanedimethanol diglycidyl ether. These ethers produce a very clear and strong hydrogel that reacts hydrophobically to high pH aqueous solutions and swells when exposed to low pH or acidic solutions. Hydrogel density and porosity also can be controlled by adding an amount of oxidizer to the polymer during polymerization. Whether in solution or dry these oxidizers can be further activated chemically electrically or by photons during polymerization to achieve desired properties.

Ionic hydrogel swelling kinetics are achieved by a difference in pH ions cations or protons between a solution outside of the hydrogel and a solution inside of the hydrogel or the polymer composition of the hydrogel. These performance characteristics can be controlled several ways. For example adding acid to the polymer during polymerization creates a hydrogel that has a higher pH swelling property. Hydrogel swelling kinetics also can be controlled by adding salts or alkali solutions to the polymer during polymerization. This is accomplished by chemical electrical electrochemical photo or photochemical excitation of the epoxy polymer or solution that it is hydrated with.

It is possible to create an electro activated polymer EAP by hydrating the epoxy hydrogel in an electrolyte inserting an electrode into the gel and spacing a second electrode a short distance from the hydrogel and running low amounts of current through the electrodes. For example epoxy hydrogel swelling may be increased in the region of a platinum electrode using saline as an electrolyte fluid. When the polarity is reversed the hydrogel will deswell or contract. Control of hydrophobic and hydrophilic properties also can be achieved by these methods.

A challenge with these polymer actuators is to generate forces and strain rates of actuation that are sufficient for pumping fluids.

Another challenge with such polymeric actuators is the generation of gas during operation. Polymeric actuators utilizing electrodes and aqueous electrolytes are particularly advantageous for high efficiency actuation but may hydrolyze out oxygen and hydrogen.

Gases produced in a polymer actuator are undesirable for the effects they may have on charge transfer and the mechanical system. By producing an insulating pocket a gas bubble will impede charge transfer through the system. This effectively lowers the surface area of the electrode and or the polymer which reduces the rate of expansion of the polymer. To make matters worse the gas pocket is variable and unpredictable in size and precise composition reducing accuracy of any device utilizing a polymeric actuator.

Also gas expansion may produce an apparent expansion of an actuator that later relaxes due to compression or absorption of the gas. Gas production thus reduces repeatability predictability and accuracy of the actuator.

Compounding these consistency problems is the inconsistent adhesion of actuator polymer to a non reactive substrate. Hydrogels are prone to delamination and typically are not stable in aqueous environments hindering for example thin film characterization and use in aqueous media. Adhesion may require solutions that increase the number of chemicals and process steps leading to increased complexity and may use chemicals that are not environmentally benign.

There is therefore a need for an actuator that can produce high rates of actuation without the shortcomings of hydrolysis or other gas generation.

There is further a need for a hydrogel actuator that is conveniently adhered to a hydrophobic surface.

Conventional actuators do not meet the full need for such an application. Furthermore state of the art polymer actuators do not isolate and create distinct ionic or pH boundaries of the electrolyte at the anode or cathode side of the electrodes.

Typical electrode materials for polymer actuators are metals carbons and some conductive polymers. The type of electrode is somewhat dependent on the type of actuator and electrolytic chemistry needed to create the desired response. One drawback to using most metals is that they typically are not stable for both the oxidation and redox reaction at each electrode. Nobel metals such as gold and platinum can be used due to their stability but are very expensive and not practical for industrial type use. Other materials such as carbon and graphite will work but have difficult working mechanical properties making them not practical and conductive polymers are very limited in their chemical compatibility to other polymers. Another drawback all electrodes have is electrochemical gas generation at the electrode surface interface with the electrolyte. The generation of gas both in type and volume is dependent on the polarity of the electrode and the amount of electrical current applied to the electrodes in an actuator or actuator assembly and the electrolyte. Gas creates a significant problem of compressible pressure in closed or sealed actuator systems and can actually outpace the polymer actuation or volume change thereby creating unreliable results in actuation cycles.

The present invention overcomes the aforesaid and other problems of the prior art. The invention in one aspect provides a polymer actuator assembly having an anode and a cathode separated by a porous membrane in an electrolyte a metal hydride material in contact with the surface of one or more of the electrodes and a polymeric actuator in contact with the anode or the cathode. The porous membrane acts as a barrier or separator material and eliminates or reduces comingling of the ionic or pH regions substantially increasing the response accuracy time and volume changes of the actuator material as well as improving the range of electrode materials and configurations of the cathode and anode electrodes within the device.

The electrodes in solution with the porous membrane facilitate modulation of the pH around the polymeric actuator via charges or ionic separation. The electrolyte may be aqueous or nonaqueous. The polymeric actuator may be configured to expand or contract in response to pH or chemical changes in the electrolyte induced by an electrical potential differential in the electrodes.

The actuator assembly may further provide a sealed flexible outer housing enclosure allowing sealed entrance or exit points for the electrodes. In an alternative embodiment the assembly provides a second polymeric actuator such that each polymeric actuator is adjacent to one of the electrodes and both actuators are configured to expand or contract simultaneously when an electric potential differential is applied to the electrodes.

The polymeric actuator and the electrode in contact with the polymeric actuator may be sealed inside a flexible container or bag made of the same material as the porous membrane with a portion of the electrode exiting the flexible container. The portion of the electrode outside of the flexible container is then insulated from the electrolyte by porous membrane material to facilitate actuation when the electric potential differential is applied to the electrodes. The flexible container or bag or at least a portion of the flexible container or bag preferably is composed of an elastomeric material. A rigid structure that is pervious to the electrolyte or solution by being for example porous may surround the polymer actuator material at least in part to facilitate the direction of actuation.

The surface area of the polymeric actuator exposed to the actuating stimulus may be increased by pulverizing or grinding the polymeric actuator material into smaller particles or particulates. The particulates of the actuating material may then form a slurry with the electrolyte. The particulates may be enclosed in a flexible porous enclosure with the electrode in contact with the exterior surface of the enclosure or with the electrode penetrating the enclosure to be in direct contact with the particulates and the electrolyte immediately surrounding the particulates. The flexible enclosure may be contained at least in part in a rigid porous container that directs the action of actuation while allowing fluidic flow of electrolyte through the rigid container.

The actuator assembly may further comprise a gas absorbent material such as activated carbon. Alternatively gas created in the electrolyte or solution may be collected in a storage area outside of the sealed flexible housing. The storage area is in fluid connection with the electrolyte to allow selective flow of gas without removing electrolyte into the storage area.

The polymeric actuator of the actuator assembly may act as a platen or piston. Moreover the electrodes of the actuator assembly may be configured to allow in line electrical connectivity of a series of actuators in a more complex system. The assembly may include a programmable controller and a power source to create the electrical potential differential in the electrodes power the programmable controller. One or more sensors may communicate feedback to the controller for more automatic operation of the actuator assembly. The actuator assembly or a plurality of actuator assemblies in a desired configuration may be used to pump a fluid.

The invention in another aspect provides a polymeric actuator assembly including a housing a first electrode and a second electrode and a electrolyte. The electrodes are separated by a membrane to maintain a pH difference between the electrolyte surrounding the respective electrodes when a voltage is applied between the first and second electrodes. The assembly may include a plurality of polymeric actuators disposed near an electrode that respond to a pH change within the electrolyte.

The polymeric actuator may have increased surface area by pulverizing or grinding the actuating material into granules. The porous container is a polymeric bag and the granules of actuating material form a slurry with the electrolyte within the bag.

In yet another aspect of the invention a polymeric actuator component comprises an actuating polymer that increases volume in response to a stimulus cross linked to a hydrophobic polymer. The actuating polymer and the hydrophobic polymer comprise an ether epoxide and an NH reactant and preferably the NH component is common to both polymers. The epoxide in the actuating polymer is a hydrophilic di epoxide such as polyethylene diglycidyl glycol ether. The epoxide in the hydrophobic polymer is a hydrophobic di epoxide such as neopentyl diglycidyl ether or polypropylene diglycidyl glycol ether. The NH reactant may be a polyether amine such as JEFF AMINE T 403 available from Huntsman Corporation. The hydrophobic polymer may further comprise polyethyleneimine and water to decrease polymerization time.

The ratio of epoxide to NH reactant in the actuator polymer without dendrimers typically is between about 1 to 2 and about 1 to 10 preferably about 1 to 2.85 and the ratio of epoxide to NH reactant in the hydrophobic polymer typically is between about 1 to 1.5 and about 1 to 3 preferably about 1 to 2.0. By incorporating dendrimers the ratio of epoxide to NH reactant can become significantly different dependent on the number of NH sites on each dendrite molecule these can range from 4 NH units in a 1generation molecule to over 5 000 in a tenth generation molecule. Polymers incorporating dendrimers would have a much larger epoxide to NH unit ratio and could easily be between 1 to 4 and 1 to thousands of NH units.

The composite hydrogel material of the invention may be used to produce an actuator polymer that is sealed in a defined volume by the hydrophobic polymer or an actuator polymer that is protected from the external environment by the hydrophobic polymer. The composite hydrogel material may be used as a sensor material structure gel electrolyte material selective ion permeable membrane liquid filtration and treatment component wound care membrane or acid scavenging material as well as many other applications that would be recognized by those having skill in the art.

The invention in another aspect provides a polymeric actuator material made by polymerizing an ether reactant including both a hydrophilic ether and a hydrophobic ether and an epoxide. The actuation speed or flexibility of the material may be adjusted according to the ratio of the dominant ether reactant to the lesser ether reactant. In this aspect the ratio of epoxide to NH reactant typically is preferably between about 1 to 2.5 and about 1 to 3 more preferably about 1 to 2.85. The ratio of hydrophilic ether to hydrophobic ether is between about 100 to 1 and about 1 to 100 typically about 99 to 1.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides improvements in the electrodes of polymer actuators. An electrode capable of double layer capacity or charge storage within but not limited to an activated carbon layer applied or bonded to the electrode is desirable to control gas generation at the electrode and electrolyte interface in a polymer actuator. This aspect of the invention provides a device for activating a polymer actuator including one or more polymer actuators each actuator having one or more double layer capacitor electrodes. The polymer actuators are either activated electrically or activated chemically. The double layer capacitor electrodes are in an electrolyte that may be either aqueous or non aqueous. The electrodes may be connected to a discharge circuit and a controller wherein the controller is configured to open and close the discharge circuit at a predetermined time or upon the accumulation of a specified amount of charge in the system.

In the following description directional or geometric terms such as upper lower and side are used solely with reference to the orientation of the Figures depicted in the drawings. These are not to imply or be limited to a direction with respect to a gravitational reference frame but are utilized to distinguish directions relative to each other. Because components of the invention can be positioned in a number of different orientations the directional terminology is used for purposes of illustration and is in no way limiting. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Details in the various embodiments such as how current or wiring is routed to electrodes from power supplies are left out for illustrative simplicity since various methods of such routing is known in the art. The term electrolyte refers to and includes all aqueous non aqueous polymer and solid electrolytes including those that are generally well known in the art. The term electrodes refer to anodes and cathodes commonly used in electrochemical systems that are made of materials well known in the art such as metals carbons graphenes oxides or conducting polymers or combinations of these. The term separator refers to any nano micro or macro porous material that allows targeted ions to move through or across it faster than surrounding ion containing media. The term ion refers to ions and ion species as well as anion cation electrons and protons and concentration values of these. The term housing refers to the exterior portion of the device which may be fabricated from flexible material rigid material elastic materials non elastic materials or a combination of these such as rubbers silicone polyurethane metalized polymer films and other plastics or polymers known in the art. The housing is configured to allow movement and expansion of the internal parts as well as allowing for filling the device with electrolyte acting as a container and barrier to stop any electrolyte leakage or evaporation allowing electrodes to make electrical contact with power source as well as to enter and exit the housing if needed and also the ability to vent any unwanted gas generation if needed.

Referring to the drawings an actuator is comprised in part of a polymeric actuating material. In an exemplary embodiment these polymer actuators are formed from ion or pH responsive epoxy polymer Hydrogel based polymers. Examples of such polymers are described in commonly owned WIPO patent application WO 2008 079440 A2 Entitled SUPER ELASTIC EPOXY HYDROGEL filed on Jul. 10 2007 and published on Jul. 3 2008. Other polymer actuator examples may contain polymers which have ionic functional groups such as carboxylic acid phosphoric acid sulfonic acid primary amine secondary amine tertiary amine and ammonium acrylic acid methacrylic acid vinylacetic acid maleic acid meta kurir yl oxy ethylphosphoric acid vinylsulfonic acid styrene sulfonic acid vinylpyridine vinylaniline vinylimidazole aminoethyl acrylate methylamino ethyl acrylate dimethylamino ethyl acrylate ethylamino ethyl acrylate ethyl methylamino ethyl acrylate diethylamino ethyl acrylate aminoethyl methacrylate methylamino ethyl methacrylate dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate ethylamino ethyl methacrylate ethyl methylamino ethyl methacrylate diethylamino ethyl methacrylate aminoproply acrylate methylaminopropyl acrylate dimethylamino propylacrylate ethylaminopropyl acrylate ethyl methylaminopropyl acrylate diethylamino propylacrylate aminopropyl methacrylate methylaminopropyl methacrylate dimethylaminopropyl methacrylate ethylaminopropyl methacrylate ethyl methylaminopropyl methacrylate polymers such as diethylamino propyl methacrylate dimethylaminoethyl acrylamide dimethylaminopropylacrylamide and alpha kurir yl oxy ethyl trimethylammonium salts are reported to be of use but these examples are for reference and not intended to limit the scope or use of the invention.

The invention in one aspect comprises new actuating polymers comprised of hydrophobic materials cross linked with smart hydrogel polymers using multiple di epoxides or polyepoxides as the cross linking mechanism to adhere the materials together at the molecular level. The composite material also may be formed by using a single diepoxide or polyepoxide and then cross linking different layers of material via the polyamine components such as JEFF AMINE with different functionalities or polymer chains and back bones.

Previously filed PCT US2007 073188 hereby incorporated in its entirety describes unique epoxy hydrogel polymers formed by reacting a polyether amine with a polyglycidyl ether. The resulting polymer is a super elastic hydrogel having various applications. The epoxy hydrogel can be produced by mixing ratios of ether reactants such as polyethylene glycol diglycidyl ether and polyoxyalkyleneamines and H2O resulting in an aqueous polymerization of the materials. Particularly preferred are polyoxyalkyleneamines such as commercially available from Huntsman Corporation under the brand name JEFF AMINE and other polyether amines as an epoxy component that is reacted with various ethers to form epoxy hydrogels. The polyoxyalkyleneamines contain primary amino groups attached to the terminus of a polyether backbone. They are thus polyether amines. The polyether backbone is based either on propylene oxide PO ethylene oxide EO mixed propylene oxide ethylene oxide or may contain other backbone segments and varied reactivity provided by hindering the primary amine or through secondary amine functionality.

In one embodiment of the invention hydrophilic variants of hydrogel polymer actuators are cross linked based on JEFF AMINE T 403 and Polyethylene digycidyl glycol ether to hydrophobic variants of the gel by changing the diglycidyl ether reactant component and keeping the same epoxy JEFF AMINE T 403 component.

Referring in particular to simple cylinders comprised of half hydrophilic actuator material and half non actuating hydrophobic material cross linked together at the molecular level may be cast. The actuator material is first placed into a mold or cast and partially cured. Then a second material is added to the mold and both materials are allowed to totally cure. Ratios of di epoxides to NH may be varied and both neopentyl diglycidyl ether and polypropylene diglycidyl glycol ether may be substituted for the polyethylene diglycidyl glycol ether used in the actuator material. A mixture of JEFF AMINE T 403 and Neopentyl glycol diglycidyl ether yields a polymer with hydrophobic properties advantageous to actuator applications. In this way two or more types of epoxy polymers may be adhered together even though they have very different properties.

In a specific embodiment the hydrophobic polymer is bonded to the actuator material . In the hydrophobic polymer is bonded to the actuator hydrophilic material with addressable electrodes and electrically connected to the controller sensor or sensors and power source. A number of different chemicals may be added to JEFF AMINE T 403 in order to form a polymer with both hydrophobic properties and the ability to bind to an actuator gel such as that described in previously filed PCT US2007 073188. For example neopentyl glycol diglycidyl ether may be added to JEFF AMINE T 403 with an Epoxide NH Reactant ratio of 1 to 2.85 the same Epoxide NH Reactant ratio present in the standard actuator gel formulation. To ensure prompt polymerization the ratio of epoxide NH Reactant ratio may be decreased. Neopentyl glycol diglycidyl ether and JEFF AMINE T 403 mixtures with an Epoxide NH Reactant ratio of 1 to 1.7 1.8 1.9 and 2.0 were all found to successfully polymerize after heating at 60 degrees C. for 5 hours and further curing at room temperature for 72 hours. The hydrophobicity of the polymers with these ratios yielded an approximate maximum of about 8 10 swelling after storage in water for up to three weeks. Furthermore as the Epoxide NH Reactant ratio is increased the elasticity of the resultant polymer is also increased. As a result a mixture of JEFF AMINE T 403 and neopentyl glycol diglycidyl ether with an Epoxide NH Reactant ratio of 1 to 2.0 displays excellent adhesion with the actuator polymer not only after curing but also with hydration.

If desired the hydrophobicity may be increased and the time required for polymerization decreased. Poly propylene glycol diglycidyl ether PPGDGE may be added to a mixture of Neopentyl glycol diglycidyl ether and JEFF AMINE T 403 maintaining an Epoxide NH Reactant ratio of 1 to 2.0. or more Polymers with 10 26 and 50 PPGDGE were synthesized and stored in water to test their hydrophobicity or resistance to swelling. All gels swelled between 12 and 15 after storage in water for two weeks. Further it was surprisingly found that the addition of PPGDGE results in a decrease in polymer elasticity as compared to the base Neopentyl glycol diglycidyl ether and JEFF AMINE T 403 polymer.

In order to decrease gel curing time Polyethyleneimine 1300 molecular weight may be added to the base Neopentyl glycol diglycidyl ether and JEFF AMINE T 403 gel. The addition of 10 and 15 polyethyleneimine along with 10 water results in gels that polymerize more quickly. The gels completely polymerized after heating at 60 degrees C. for 5 hours and did not require further curing at room temperature to decrease gel stickiness.

The advantage of faster polymerization may be accompanied by a decrease in hydrophobicity. These gels including Polyethyleneimine were found to swell between 23 and 32 after storage in water for two weeks. Therefore polymers with an increased hydrophobicity and decreased polymerization time are possible but may be accompanied by performance tradeoffs particularly in the hydrophobicity of the resultant polymer.

The length of the polymer chain and amine ratio versus Epoxide NH Reactant ratios also may decrease polymerization time in a hydrophilic actuator gel. For example varying compositions were evaluated using Polyethyleneimine branched polymers similar to Epomin SP 012 low mol. Wt. 50 wt. soln. in water both 2000 and 1300 molecular weights. Resulting gels were able to polymerize at room temperature in approximately 40 minutes with ratios of epoxide to NH as high as 1 to 7 or more. These gels were comparatively brittle and stiff showed a normal range of hydration at approximately 400 consistent with our standard gel formulation

Initial actuation testing of new composite actuator structures comprised of a hydrophilic actuator polymer and a hydrophobic polymer depicted graphically in successfully showed 100 swelling at each actuator portion under positive electric current of 1 mA. Accordingly an addressable location peristaltic type of pump mechanism or an array of actuators as shown in may effectively be constructed of the examined composite polymers. Similarly the examined polymers were shown to be smart and chemical responsive hydrogels capable of being used in a variety of applications. Materials comprising these polymers may be cast in many layers and shapes that would be advantageous to a particular use and application.

In another embodiment of the invention two or more of the di epoxides are combined into one singular polymer actuator composition and the performance of the actuator material is adjusted according to the ratio of the dominant functional di epoxide to the lesser functional di epoxide. The ratio of the dominant functional di epoxide to the lesser functional di epoxide may be varied to advantageously vary actuation speed or flexibility of the material. In a particular embodiment 1 neopentyl glycol diglycidyl ether is added to the JEFF AMINE T403 and PEGDE formulation mentioned in previous PCT US2007 073188 resulting in a much faster actuator. This is not intended to limit the use or the materials used in a composite assembly made by cross linking the functional layers.

A composite hydrogel material may be used as a sensor material structure gel electrolyte material selective ion permeable membrane liquid filtration and treatment wound care membrane actuator or even acid scavenging material. This process also may be used to seal the external layer or layers of a composite structure such as an actuator thereby effectively sealing in the electrolyte held within or around the polymer to protect from evaporation. Additionally internal materials may be protected from the external environment by UV exposure protection using the described composite hydrogels. The embodiments described above are just a few examples for which the composite hydrogel of the invention may be used for and are not meant to limit the scope of the invention.

In one application the present invention concerns improvements made to a polymeric actuator including an increase in effective surface area to increase magnitude and repeatability of an expansion rate of a polymeric actuator. This has been accomplished by increasing the actual surface area of the polymer and by increasing the effective surface area electrode improvements and by gas mitigation methods. The improvements of this invention have been demonstrated to achieve a 400 increase in a volumetric expansion rate over prior art methods while reducing variability.

An exemplary embodiment of an actuator assembly according to the present invention is schematically depicted with respect to . Actuator assembly includes a polymeric actuator material and an associated electrode set including top electrode and bottom electrode . Bottom electrode is in contact with metal hydride material . The electrode set and the polymeric actuator are contained within housing . The housing may be formed with folds pleats or other excess material on the sides in order to allow for the large expansion rates of the actuator material as well as providing storage pockets or areas for any excess gas generated to collect without impacting the expansion rate of the actuator assembly. An electrolyte is also contained within housing in contact with the electrode set and actuator . Actuator is a polymerized polymer actuator particulate made by grinding hydrated epoxy gel and placing the gel into a flexible porous bag . The actuator may also be comprised of two or more of the di epoxides described above to vary the performance of the actuator material. Bag is made of woven polypropylene mesh 0.006 thick with 150 micron hole sizes and heat sealed. One or more bags can be used in the configuration to take advantage of volume and stroke aspects. A porous separator membrane separates the pH gradient between electrode and opposing electrode while still allowing contiguous electrolyte .

Polymeric actuator will expand or contract in response to a change in the electrolyte . There are several types of polymeric actuators that may be used including an acid responsive polymeric actuator and a base responsive polymeric actuator. An acid responsive polymeric actuator expands in response to a decreased pH in electrolyte surrounding polymeric actuator . This can be accomplished by providing a positive bias of electrode relative to electrode . Applying the positive bias causes current to flow from electrode to electrode and causes a positive ion H concentration in the electrolyte surrounding actuator to increase. The voltage applied between electrodes arranged in the aqueous solution consumes hydrogen ion and or hydroxide ion as a result of electrode reaction or yields a concentration gradient due to electric double layer occurring on the surfaces of the electrodes thereby changing the pH in the vicinity of the electrodes. Thus the electrolyte surrounding actuator becomes more acidic lower pH and causes actuator to expand.

Since the expansion speed of a solid polymer gel block is limited by the ability of the electrolyte or solvent to diffuse through the polymer actuator the speed of actuation may be increased by increasing the surface area of the polymer actuator material with access to the electrolyte. If the electrical bias is reversed the positive ion flow reverses and electrolyte surrounding actuator becomes more basic or less acidic which causes an opposite or reverse effect on actuator .

A base responsive polymeric actuator also may be used. In that case applying a negative bias to electrode relative to electrode will cause the pH in the electrolyte surrounding polymeric actuator to increase which will in turn cause the base responsive polymeric actuator to expand. In this case the metal hydride would be in contact with the electrode in an aqueous electrolyte solution depending on the electrolyte electrochemical reaction and type of gas produced during operation. When the polymeric actuator expands it causes the entire actuator assembly to expand.

An alternative design of an actuator assembly utilizing both acid responsive and base responsive actuators is depicted in in schematic form. Actuator assembly includes an acid responsive polymeric actuator cast gel A a base responsive polymeric actuator cast gel B a top electrode and a bottom electrode in contact with metal hydride and then exiting the housing all within housing . An electrolyte A surrounds top electrode and acid responsive actuator A a bottom electrolyte B surrounds bottom electrode and base responsive actuator B. A porous separator membrane separates the top electrolyte A from the bottom electrolyte B while allowing ions to flow between electrolytes.

When a positive bias current is applied between top electrode and bottom electrode the pH of the top electrolyte A decreases while the pH of the bottom electrolyte B increases. The decreased pH acidity increase of top electrolyte A causes acid responsive polymer material A to expand while the increased pH more basic of bottom electrolyte B causes base responsive polymer material B to expand. Having two layers of actuators may double the total displacement obtainable for the entire actuator assembly . It is anticipated that additional layers of polymeric actuators with alternating layers of acid responsive and base responsive polymeric actuators can be used to further increase the maximum aggregate expansion of actuator assembly .

An alternative embodiment of an actuator assembly is depicted with respect to and includes the same embodiment of actuator assembly shown in with the addition of a top electrode with metal hydride material A in contact with top electrode as well as the bottom electrode .

An alternative embodiment of an actuator assembly is depicted with respect to and includes the same embodiment of actuator assembly shown in with the polymer actuator material as a cast gel it is also possible to use multiple actuator material castings or bags in the same configuration the same would be true for all of the configurations depicted also shown is a top electrode with metal hydride material A in contact with top electrode as well as the bottom electrode .

Another polymer actuator assembly embodiment is shown in wherein the top electrode is in close proximity to gas adsorbing material such as an activated carbon which can adsorb for example oxygen when wet. The gas adsorbing material is in contact with electrolyte and adsorbs gas produced at electrode as the gas migrates through electrolyte . Bottom electrode is in contact with metal hydride material . The electrode set and the polymeric actuator material as a cast gel are contained within housing . Contained within housing is an electrolyte in contact with the electrode set and actuator material . Separating electrode from surrounding electrolyte is a porous separator membrane . Polymeric actuator will expand or contract in response to a change in the electrolyte utilizing the same type of actuation mechanism and response described for .

Yet another preferred polymer actuator assembly embodiment is shown in wherein the actuator material is a polymer particulate held in a porous flexible bag and then the polymer particulate containing bag is held in a firm porous structure helping to contain and direct the swelling flexible bag in one direction during the polymer material s actuation response for efficiency of stroke or improved distance that the plate can be pushed by flexible bag expanding due to the swelling of the polymer material . The Top electrode is inserted into the particulate bag between the polymer particles to maximize contact.

The assembly is vented into another gas absorbing material such as Oxisorb liquid form oxygen absorbent. The gas absorbent is separated from the electrolyte by hydrophobic separator materials that allow gas to penetrate while constraining electrolyte fluid. It is possible also to have no absorbent in the vent in order to merely contain the gas in a separated compartment so the gas does not impact the actuation of the polymer materials. The separator material is in contact with electrolyte and allows gas produced at electrode to collect as the gas migrates through electrolyte . Bottom electrode is in contact with metal hydride material which allows gas to adsorb to the metal hydride material . The electrode set and the polymeric actuator are contained within housing in contact with an electrolyte . A porous membrane may separate electrode from surrounding electrolyte .

Shown in all figures is the electrical power supply and controller for control of the actuator assembly s motion speed and force. The embodiment in also shows interaction with a sensor for feedback and automated control of the actuator assembly.

There are many gas mitigation materials and techniques that are well known in the art of various analytical sciences and methods such as HPLC or other methods of chromatography all of the embodiments described are meant to show possible actuator assembly configurations utilizing gas mitigation materials components and techniques as part of the assembly and are not meant to limit the scope of the invention in any way.

In another aspect of the present invention an electrode capable of double layer capacitance or charge storage is used to control gas generation within the actuator. For example psuedocapacitor type electrodes may be used to control gas generation.

According to the present invention the electrical current builds a charge layer instead of generating gas at the electrolyte and electrode surface interface. This process continues until the electrode is fully charged at which point the charge is disbursed and the gas is produced.

As seen in the example shown in the actuator assembly is contained in a flexible non permeable housing material such as but not limited to a metalized polyethylene film. The housing contains the electrolyte polymer actuator material semi porous container for the polymer the electrode in contact with or in the vicinity of the polymer a semi porous separator membrane or sheet located between the electrodes a carbon PTFE capacitive layer coating and the opposing electrode in electrical connection with discharge circuit controller and power source.

In one example of the present aspect of the invention the electrode is discharged at a predetermined time in the charge cycle. In this example the point at which the gas is generated is a function of the predetermined time rather than the rate at which the energy accumulates within the capacitor. Once the discharge occurs the charging process starts again thereby eliminating gas generation at the electrode by using charge and discharge cycles.

To manufacture this type of electrode a Teflon PTFE aqueous emulsion such as those made by DuPont is mixed with a high surface area carbon or other high surface area material such as for example activated carbon oxides such as for example metal oxides as well as other materials such as metal hydrides. These materials can be used either on their own or mixed together to produce a desired performance curve of gas mitigation at the electrode. The high surface area material is mixed with the emulsion and pressed or coated onto the electrode and baked to the correct processing temperature to bind the mixture together and to the electrode this process is well known in the art of battery and capacitor manufacturing. The electrode substrate can be perforated expanded or plated with solid metals such as but not limited a low cost aluminum or stainless steel foil such as is well known in the art.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present invention particularly any preferred embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the present invention. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the invention. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this invention and protected by the following claims.

