---

title: Device for adjusting the height of the backrest of an office chair
abstract: A device for adjusting the height of the backrest of an office chair having a backrest unit at the rear side of a seat body. The height adjustment may take place to achieve the optimal resting angle according to the different body shapes, personal requirements and needs of the users. In moving upward to adjust the height, an automatic engagement is achieved in the predetermined position. Moreover, an automatic return to the lowest position is achieved as well in reaching the highest position. It is done without any tools or control buttons and fulfills the requirements on the user-friendly operation and a practical use. In addition, a waistrest is located at the position of the waist of the user for providing an optimal resting comfort by means of the pivoted and telescopic structure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08579376&OS=08579376&RS=08579376
owner: 
number: 08579376
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20110201
---
The invention relates to a device for adjusting the height of the backrest of an office chair and more particularly to a backrest and a waistrest both of which are height adjustable and achieve an automatic drop in reaching a predetermined height.

As shown in a conventional office chair includes a seat body which is supported by an upright rod on a base with a plurality of rollers. A seat back is positioned upright at the tail of the seat body . An arched and streamlined headrest is mounted at the top of the seat back via a pair of support bars . The height of the headrest is adjustable by the fixing position of the support bars and the seat back . The optimal resting angle for the back and the neck depends on different body shapes personal requirements and needs of the users when they sit on the chair. The conventional fixed type headrest design obviously fails to meet the above mentioned requirements so that it is impractical.

Besides the conventional office chair is often provided with a waistrest on the seat back. The waistrest is indirectly driven by a transmission set not shown within the seat back to impart a telescopic movement to an internal frame plate. The drive position is located at the side of the seat back such that the assembly and the operation will do great harm to the whole appearance of the chair. When not used and removed it occupies a considerable mounting space. Moreover the waistrest which is mounted and telescopically moved within the seat back is unable to achieve the expected supporting or resting effect due to the insufficient resilience and the too small distance of the telescopic drive movement. In addition the waistrest mounted and telescopically moved within the seat back requires the additional transmission set for driving an internal frame plate in a telescopic movement thereby causing the cost burden of the component assembly.

According to U.S. Pat. No. 7 303 232B1 filed by the applicant of the invention a BACKREST ADJUSTING DEVICE FOR OFFICE CHAIRS is disclosed for eliminating the drawbacks of the prior art. As shown in a device for adjusting the angle of a waistrest and for adjusting the height and the depth of the headrest is provided to resolve the above mentioned drawbacks and further to achieve the expected effects.

According to the above mentioned conventional structure the backrest is ridigly attached to the seat body such that the height thereof is not adjustable. As a result it is not possible to adjust the chair to an optimal and ergonomic state according to the personal requirements. Thus there is still room for improvement.

An object of the invention is to provide a device for adjusting the height of the backrest of an office chair through which the height adjustment may take place to achieve the optimal resting angle according to the different body shapes personal requirements and needs of the users. In moving upward to adjust the height an automatic engagement is achieved in the predetermined position. Moreover an automatic return to the lowest position is achieved as well in reaching the highest position. It is done without any tools or control buttons and fulfills the requirements on the user friendly operation and a practical use.

Another object of the invention is to provide a device for adjusting the height of the backrest of an office chair in which a waistrest is located at the place of the waist of the user for providing an optimal resting comfort by means of the pivoted and telescopic structure.

b a frame body formed in an L shape the bottom portion thereof being pivotally attached to the rear side of the seat body the frame body having a left and right vertical portion both of which are parallel to each other and located at the place facing to the back of the human body a longitudinal slot being formed at the front or rear side of the vertical portions a longitudinal projecting body being positioned at the center of the longitudinal slot such that an elongated ring shaped turning slide is formed within the longitudinal slot by means of the longitudinal projecting body one side of the longitudinal projecting body having a plurality of engaging teeth with the opening directed substantially upward 

c a backrest unit mounted at the front side of the frame body and having at the rear side thereof two slide sleeves facing to the longitudinal slot of the frame body and movable up and down on the vertical portions the slide sleeves each include a mounting hole at the side facing to the engaging teeth and

d a engaging unit having an engaging body and a torsion spring the engaging body having a shank and a crank at the front side of the shank the end of the crank being provided with a projection insertable into the engaging teeth the rear end of the shank fitting into the mounting hole of the slide sleeves the torsion spring being mounted on the shank the torsion spring having a front arm resting on the surface of the crank and a rear arm fixed at the periphery of the mounting hole of the slide sleeves 

According to the invention the frame body includes an elongated groove beside and parallel to the longitudinal slot. The slide sleeve includes a slipper corresponding to and fitting into the elongated groove such that the slide sleeve of the backrest unit can be stably and longitudinally movable on the frame body.

According to the invention the slide sleeve of the backrest unit consists of an external clamping portion and an internal clamping portion. Both sides of the external clamping portion are connected to a crossbar extending to an external frame of the backrest unit. After the torsion spring is received within the mounting hole the internal clamping portion is secured to the external clamping portion in such a way that the vertical portion of the frame body is clamped between the external and internal clamping portions.

According to the invention the external frame of the backrest unit is provided with two spring elements at the bottom thereof. A waistrest is pivotally connected to the bottom of the spring elements such that the waistrest elastically rests on the spring elements and is swivelable to and fro by use of the spring elements.

First of all referring to an embodiment of the device for adjusting the height of the backrest of an office chair in accordance with the invention includes a seat body a frame body and backrest unit and a engaging unit .

The frame body is formed in an L shape. The bottom portion thereof is pivotally attached to the rear side of the seat body . The frame body includes a left and right vertical portion both of which are parallel to each other and located at the place facing to the back of the human body. A longitudinal slot is formed at the front or rear side of the vertical portions . A longitudinal projecting body is positioned at the center of the longitudinal slot . An elongated ring shaped turning slide is formed within the longitudinal slot by means of the longitudinal projecting body . One side of the longitudinal projecting body includes a plurality of engaging teeth with the opening substantially directed upward.

The backrest unit is mounted at the front side of the frame body and includes at the rear side thereof two slide sleeves facing to the longitudinal slot of the frame body and movable up and down on the vertical portions . The slide sleeves each include a mounting hole at the side facing to the engaging teeth .

The engaging unit includes an engaging body and a torsion spring . The engaging body has a shank and a crank at the front side of the shank . The end of the crank is provided with a projection insertable into the engaging teeth . Moreover the rear end of the shank enters into the mounting hole of the slide sleeves . According to the embodiment the shank has a plug hole into which a positioning plug fits such that the shank may rotate on the positioning plug . The torsion spring is mounted on the shank . The torsion spring has a front arm fixed in a through hole of the crank and a rear arm entering into a locating hole adjacent to the mounting hole of the slide sleeves . In this way the crank of the engaging body is subject to a side resilience such that the projection at the end of the crank leans against the side of the longitudinal projecting body when the slide sleeves moves up and down. When the projection rises to the prearranged position the projection is engaged into the engaging teeth by means of the resilience of the torsion spring . Moreover when the projection rises to the top of the longitudinal projecting body it falls down in a n natural and unhindered way along the side opposite to the engaging teeth . As a result the height of the backrest unit is adjustable from a lower position to a higher position. When the projection reaches the highest position it will automatically fall back to the lower position. The height adjustment may be done according to the requirement of the user once again.

As shown in the frame body includes an elongated groove beside and parallel to the longitudinal slot . The slide sleeve includes a slipper corresponding to and fitting into the elongated groove such that the slide sleeve of the backrest unit can be stably and longitudinally movable on the frame body .

According to the embodiment the slide sleeve of the backrest unit consists of an external clamping portion and an internal clamping portion . Both sides of the external clamping portion are connected to a crossbar extending to an external frame of the backrest unit . After the torsion spring is received within the mounting hole the internal clamping portion is secured to the external clamping portion in such a way that the vertical portion of the frame body is clamped between the external and internal clamping portions 

As shown in and the external frame is provided with two spring elements at the bottom thereof A waistrest is pivotally connected to the bottom of the spring elements such that the waistrest elastically rests on the spring elements and is swivelable to and fro by use of the spring elements . According to the embodiment the spring elements are formed as curved spring leaf but should not be restricted thereto. Alternatively it can also be a torsion spring.

Furthermore the backrest unit includes a headrest at the top thereof while a coat hanger is attached to the back of the headrest but should not be restricted thereof. Other objects may be provided for meeting different requirements.

The greatest feature of the invention is the height adjusting design of the backrest unit . Based upon the above mentioned structure the adjustment of the invention is done as shown in 

As shown in the backrest unit is located at the lowest position while the projection of the engaging unit is situated at the bottom of the longitudinal projecting body .

As shown in the backrest unit is moved upward to adjust its height. When it reaches the predetermined height it is only required to stop it. At that time the projection is engaged into the engaging teeth by means that the crank and the projection of the engaging unit are subject to the resilient force of the torsion spring . Moreover the engaging teeth are directed substantially to the top such that an engagement is created when the projection drops into the groove between teeth. In this way the slide sleeve won t fall down. Meanwhile it can still move upward to adjust the height thereof.

First of all as shown in the backrest unit is moved to the highest position. At that time the crank and the projection of the engaging unit are detached from the engaging teeth at the external side and located at the top of the longitudinal projecting body . The top of the longitudinal projecting body is constructed as a guide camber inclined inward. Thus the projection moves along the guide camber and enters into the internal side of the longitudinal projecting body . The turning slide at the internal side does not have any teeth or obstacles such that the entire slide sleeve naturally falls down see and drops back to the lowest position as shown in . The bottom of the longitudinal projecting body is constructed as a guide camber inclined outward such that the projection of the engaging unit may be moved from the external side to adjust its height. As a result the slide sleeve is movable on the vertical portion in the range marked by L for adjusting its height.

Based on the above mentioned structure the height adjustment may take place to achieve the optimal resting angle according to the different body shapes personal requirements and needs of the users. In moving upward to adjust the height an automatic engagement is achieved in the predetermined position. Moreover an automatic return to the lowest position is achieved as well in reaching the highest position. It is done without any tools or control buttons and fulfills the requirements on the user friendly operation and a practical use.

Many changes and modifications in the above described embodiments of the invention can of course be carried out without departing from the scope thereof. Accordingly to promote the progress in science and the useful arts the invention is disclosed and is intended to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

