---

title: Methods and systems for navigating a list with gestures
abstract: Methods and systems for facilitating the navigation of a list of content items with gestures are described. Consistent with some embodiments, a computing device detects simple gestures, and in response, display a preview of content items preceding, or following a currently selected content item, from the list of content items. Upon detecting a selection gesture, the computing device updates the view of the currently selected content item to display the newly selected content item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015639&OS=09015639&RS=09015639
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09015639
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110211
---
The present disclosure generally relates to data processing techniques associated with user input mechanisms and graphical user interfaces. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods and systems for enabling a user of a computing device to navigate a list of items with simple gestures.

Advancements in a variety of specific computer related technologies have given rise to a whole range of new mobile computing devices including mobile handsets commonly referred to as smart phones tablet computers sometimes referred to as slate computers and increasingly smaller more powerful and often less expensive laptop computers. These new devices very frequently have touch sensitive devices for use as an input mechanism and in many instances as the primary input and output mechanism. For instance in the case of many smart phones and tablet computers a touchscreen display is frequently used as the primary input output mechanism. With many new laptops a touch based track pad may be used as a mechanism for controlling a cursor or pointing device. Even conventional input mechanisms such as the computer mouse are being designed to include touch sensitive surfaces for receiving user input. Designing software applications for devices that utilize these touch based input devices can be challenging particularly when there is no alternative input mechanism e.g. conventional mouse or physical keyboard and the size of the display is small.

The present disclosure describes computer based methods and systems that enable a user to easily navigate a list of content items with simple gestures. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without all of the specific details.

For purposes of the present disclosure the term computing device is meant to include desktop computers laptop or notebook computers as well as mobile computers in a wide variety of other form factors including mobile phones frequently referred to as smart phones and other general purpose or application specific computing devices that may lack the phone functionality such as portable media players cameras and global positioning system GPS devices. Skilled artisans will immediately recognize that certain mobile computing devices such as iPhones and iPod Touch devices developed by and available from Apple Corporation of Cupertino Calif. as well as any one of a wide variety of devices based on the Android operating system developed by Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. fall within the intended definition of a computing device. A great number of other computing devices with other operating systems will also be applicable to the inventive subject matter which is described at length below in connection with the description of the various figures.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention a computing device facilitates the ability of a user to navigate a list of content items by performing gestures. More precisely a computing device enables a user to maintain a view of a particular content item selected from a list of content items while previewing a second content item that precedes or follows the particular selected content item in the list of content items. When previewing a content item in the list the user can perform a gesture to select the content item being previewed which will cause the newly selected content item to be displayed in place of the previously selected content item. With some embodiments particularly those that are implemented with a touch sensitive device e.g. touch screen display or track pad the motion of the hand gestures that are utilized to navigate the list of content items is similar to the motion one might make when operating a physical jog dial. As such the gestures are referred to herein as jog gestures and navigating or moving up and down in the list of content items can be thought of as jogging through the list.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention a computing device displays via a graphical user interface a list of content items e.g. news articles emails music clips or tracks video clips or tracks and so on . Each content item in the list of content items has or is associated with at least two separate views. The first view which may generally be referred to as a list view preview view or short view may include identifying information for the content item e.g. title subject brief description and so forth . This identifying information generally enables a user to identify or determine at a high level the subject matter of the content item. The second view which may be referred to as the summary view detailed view or long view provides a more thorough description of the content item or in some instances represents a view of the item in its entirety. For instance in the context of a list of emails the list view may include the address or name of the email sender and a brief subject of the email while the detailed or summary view includes a view of the entire content of the email. Similarly in the context of a list of news articles the list view may include the title of a news article and perhaps a link to the source of the article while the detailed or summary view includes a brief summary of the news article or the entire text of the news article. In general the list view is the view of the content item that is displayed when the content item is displayed in a list with other content items or is shown as a preview. The detailed view summary view or long view is the view of the content item that is displayed for example after a user has selected the content item from the list of content items.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention the computing device enables a user to navigate the list of content items after the user has selected a particular content item from the list of content items and the detailed or summary view of the selected content item is being displayed. For instance after a user has selected a particular content item from the list of content items the computing device will display a detailed or summary view of the selected content item. When the user makes and the computing device detects a simple gesture the computing device will display a preview e.g. a list view of the content item that depending on the gesture immediately precedes or follows the presently displayed content item while continuing to display the detailed or summary view of the currently selected content item. For instance with some embodiments by pressing a finger to a touch sensitive input mechanism of the computing device and then moving the finger in a downward direction or a left to right direction with respect to the orientation of the display without lifting the finger from the surface of the touch sensitive input mechanism the user can obtain a list view of the content item that immediately precedes the content item whose detailed or summary view is presently being displayed. If for example the presently selected content item represents the fifth content item in a long list of content items when the user presses his finger to the touch sensitive input mechanism and then slides the finger in a downward direction or left to right direction a list view of the fourth content item in the list may be displayed. By pressing a finger to a touch sensitive input mechanism of the computing device and then moving the finger in an upward direction or a right to left direction the user can obtain a list view of the content item that immediately follows the content item whose detailed or summary view is presently being displayed.

In addition to previewing a content item that either immediately precedes or immediately follows the currently displayed content item the user can make a jog gesture to jog through the list of content items. For instance with some embodiments after pressing a finger to the touch sensitive input mechanism and then moving the finger in the downward direction a list view of the immediately preceding content item is displayed along with the detailed or summary view of the currently selected content item. If the currently selected content item represents the fifth content item in a list of content items the previewed content item will be the fourth content item. To jog through to the next preceding content item e.g. the third content item in the list the user simply performs a simple jog gesture. With some embodiments a jog gesture involves moving a finger in the upward direction and then immediately moving the finger in the downward direction back to the starting position without lifting the finger from the surface of the touch sensitive input mechanism. Alternatively a jog gesture may be performed by moving a finger from left to right and then back to the starting position from right to left. When the computing device detects the jog gesture the display is dynamically updated to show a list view of the next preceding content item in the list of content items for instance in this example a list view of the third content item in the list will be displayed. As will be described in greater detail below each jog gesture may be directional such that an up then down gesture jogs through the list in a first direction while a down then up gesture jogs though the list in a second direction. Similarly with embodiments using a landscape orientation a finger motion from right to left and then back from left to right may jog in a first direction while the opposite finger motion that is from left to right and then back from right to left to the starting position will jog through the list in the opposite direction. In this manner navigation that is jogging up or down or left or right within the list of content items to preview content items in the list is made possible while simultaneously displaying a detailed view of a selected content item. Advantageously with embodiments of the invention navigation of the list of content items is made possible without requiring the user to return to a list view of the content items i.e. a view of the content items in a list such that each content item is shown in list view. Other aspects of the present inventive subject matter including other example gestures will be readily apparent from the description of the figures that follow.

As shown in in addition to a gesture detection module the jogging controller module includes a list management module and a view management module . In general as the gesture detection module identifies or detects the occurrence of certain gestures these gesture events trigger the list management module to update indices used to keep track of content items in a list. Specifically with some embodiments separate indices are used to track the currently displayed content item a preceding or previous content item and a following or next content item where the preceding or previous and following or next content items precede or follow the currently selected content item in the list of content items. For instance when a user initially selects a content item from a list of content items a detailed or long view of the selected content item will be displayed. Accordingly the index associated with the current view will be set to correspond with the selected content item in the list. For example if the selected content item is the fifth content item in a long list of content items the index associated with the current view will be set to five to reflect the selection and display of the fifth content item.

While the currently selected content item is being displayed a user may perform a series of jog gestures to navigate in an upward direction in the list e.g. navigating from content item five to four then three and so forth . With each jog gesture a preview or list view of a preceding or following depending upon the gesture content item is shown. With some embodiments the preview or list view of the preceding or following content items will be displayed in a position relative to the detailed view of the currently selected content item such that the position indicates the direction of the previewed content item in the list of content items relative to the currently selected content item. For instance if a user jogs up a list or to the left in a list moving from content item five to four then three and so on the preview or list view of the preceding content items may be presented on top of or to the left of the detailed view of the currently selected content item thereby indicating to the user the position of the previewed content item in the list of content items relative to the currently selected content item. Similarly if the previewed content item is a content item that follows the currently selected content item in the list of content items then the list or short view of the previewed content item may appear at the bottom or to the right of the detailed or long view of the currently selected content item.

As the jog gestures are detected and the preview or list views of the content items are displayed the list management module updates an index used to keep track of the preceding or previous content item that is being previewed. For instance with the detection of each jog gesture representing movement in the upward direction of the list of content items e.g. from content item five to four to three and so forth the index corresponding with the previous object or view will be decremented to correspond with the content item that is currently being previewed. If and when the user performs a particular gesture to select a content item that is being previewed the currently selected content item which is being displayed with a summary or long view will be replaced with a summary or long view of the newly selected content item. In addition the list management module will update the indices so that the index for the preceding or previous item is set to the content item immediately preceding the newly selected content item and the index for the following or next content item is set to the content item that immediately follows the newly selected content item.

The view management module operates in conjunction with the list management module to manage the various views of the different content items as a user is navigating a list of content items. For instance the view management module operates to ensure that the proper view of each content item is presented on the display as a user performs the various gestures and jogs up and or down the list of content items. With some embodiments as the views change in response to the computing device detecting different gestures made by the user the views will dynamically change in an animated manner. For instance with some embodiments as a user presses his finger to a touch screen display and then slides his finger in an up or down direction the list view of the content item immediately preceding or following the currently selected and displayed content item will appear to move or slide into a position immediately adjacent the summary or long view of the currently selected and displayed item such that the movement closely parallels the movement of the user s finger on the touch screen display almost as if the user is pulling the preview or list view of the content item onto the display. Similarly as a user performs a jog operation the list management module may animate the display of the transition of the content item being previewed.

As illustrated in the controller portion of this example software architecture the jogging controller in response to detecting certain jogging gestures made by a user invokes a particular protocol command on a specified data delegate. For instance when processing a list of content items and a jog down gesture is detected the jogging controller determines whether a next content item in the list exists e.g. by calling hasNextObject and then assigns to the field NextObject the value returned by the function or method represented in by the function or method getNextObject . In this manner the jogging controller manages the mapping and management of objects to indices as jogging and selection gestures are detected.

Finally the view portion of the model view controller design pattern illustrates an example of the various views that may be presented while navigating a list according to some embodiments of the invention. For example a detailed or long view of the current object is displayed while a list view of the previous object or next object are dynamically updated based on the detection of jogging gestures. When a gesture representing the selection of a previewed object is detected the current object is updated to reflect the view of the newly selected object and the indices of all objects are updated such that the index of the previous object is set to be one less than the index for the current object and the index for the next object is set to be one greater than the index for the current object. In the views presented in the previewed content items appear above or below the detailed view of the currently selected content item. This might be thought of as a portrait orientation or mode of operation. With some embodiments a landscape orientation or mode of operation is possible such that the previewed content items will appear generally to the left or right of the currently selected content item.

Next at method operation the computing device displays a preview e.g. a list view or short view of a content item that immediately precedes or immediately follows the selected content item for which a detailed view is being displayed. For example a user may perform and the computing device may detect a first gesture representing a command or request to view a preview or list view of a content item immediately preceding or following the currently selected and displayed content item. The gesture may be performed by simply pressing a finger to a touch enabled device and moving the finger in one direction or the other where the direction indicates whether a preceding or following item is to be previewed.

Next at method operation the computing device detects a second gesture. If the second gesture is determined to be a selection gesture at method operation the computing device displays a detailed view of the selected content item e.g. the content item that had been previewed and then updates the indices associated with the current view the next view and the previous view as described in connection with . However if the detected gesture is not a selection gesture the computer determines whether the gesture is a jog gesture. If a jog gesture is detected at method operation the computing device determines whether the list of content items contains a next content item before the immediately preceding content item or after the immediately following content item depending on the direction of the jog gesture. For instance if the currently selected and displayed content item is the second in the list and the first content item is being previewed if the user attempts to preview the content item before the first content item there is no existing content item in the list to be displayed. Accordingly if no next item exists at method operation a message is displayed to indicate that further navigation in the desired direction is not possible because the end of the list has been reached.

If there is a next item in the list in the particular direction indicated by the detected jog gesture then at method operation the computing device updates the view of the previewed content item to display the next immediately preceding or next immediately following content item in the list depending on the direction of the detected jog gesture. For example if the currently selected content item is the third content item in the list and the currently previewed content item is the fourth content item when the user performs a jog gesture to view the next following content item e.g. the fifth content item in the list the display of the previewed content item is updated to replace the fourth content item with the fifth content item. In addition the corresponding index is incremented or decremented to correspond with the currently previewed content item. If the gesture is determined not to be a selection gesture or a jog gesture then at method operation the currently displayed preview of the immediately preceding or following content item is ended leaving only a detailed view of the currently selected content item.

As illustrated in the left portion of the gesture symbol with reference number represents a hand gesture made by a user when the user simply presses his finger to a touch sensitive device and then moves his finger in a downward direction. In this example at the end of the gesture the user continues to hold his finger to the touch sensitive device. With some embodiments lifting a finger from a touch sensitive device may be part of a gesture or a separate and individual gesture. The example gesture illustrated in the left portion of may be used to display a preview or list view of a content item that precedes a currently displayed content item. For example while viewing a detailed or long view of a currently selected content item if a user performs the gesture illustrated in the left portion of a preview or list view of the content item that immediately precedes the currently displayed content item may be shown. Of course performing this gesture in the opposite direction i.e. in an upward direction will in some embodiments cause the list to be navigated in the opposite direction showing the immediately following content item. Similarly when operating in a landscape orientation or mode the gesture represented by the gesture symbol with reference number may be performed in a horizontal orientation for example by moving a finger from left to right or right to left.

In the right portion of a second gesture symbol is shown. This gesture symbol represents a jog gesture used with some embodiments of the invention. For instance to perform this jog gesture the user starts with his finger held against the touch sensitive device and then simply moves his finger first in an upward direction and then back down to the very position at which the gesture started. With some embodiments this jog gesture is used to jog through the list of content items. For example if a user first performs the gesture represented by the gesture symbol on the left portion of the content item that immediately precedes the currently selected and displayed content item will be previewed. To jog through to the next immediately preceding content item the user simply performs the jog gesture represented by the gesture symbol in the right portion of . Again performing the same gesture in the opposite direction will in some embodiments cause the list of content items to be navigated in the opposite direction. Similarly the gesture represented by gesture symbol might be used in a landscape orientation or mode such that the movement of the finger is lateral from left to right and right to left.

Turning now to the computing device is shown again. In the user interface view with reference number represents the detailed view of the currently selected email e.g. selected from the list of emails shown in user interface view in . Referring now to the user interface view with reference number when a user performs the gesture represented by the gesture symbol a preview or list view of the email that immediately precedes the selected email i.e. email in the list of emails e.g. presented in user interface view in is displayed. This preview or list view of the immediately preceding email is shown with reference number in user interface view . With some embodiments the list view of the immediately preceding email is presented as an animation such that it appears to slide down adjacent to the currently selected email with the motion of the user s finger almost as if the user was pulling the user interface down to view the next item i.e. the preceding email in the list. With some embodiments the detailed view of the currently selected content item e.g. email moves in unison with the list or preview view of the immediately preceding or following content item.

With some embodiments after performing the gesture represented by the gesture symbol with reference number a user can simply release his finger e.g. lift the finger from the touch screen device to select the email that is being previewed. For instance in user interface view the gesture symbol with reference number represents a user lifting his finger from the touch screen display after having performed the gesture represented by the gesture symbol with reference number . By lifting his finger the user is selecting the previewed email which is then shown in a detailed view in the user interface with reference number . If the user desires instead to continue viewing the currently selected email rather than lift his finger the user can slide his finger back to the starting position of the gesture represented by gesture symbol as if to push the previewed email in an upward direction. The result of such a gesture would be the user interface view with reference number .

Turning now to the mobile computing device is shown again. In the transition of user interface views that occurs when a user performs a jog gesture is shown. For instance the user interface view with reference number represents the user interface view that is displayed after the user has performed the gesture associated with gesture symbol . For instance after pressing his finger to the screen and then sliding his finger in a downward direction relative to the top of the touch screen display and then holding his finger to the screen the preview or list view of the immediately preceding email is shown as indicated by reference number in the user interface view with reference number .

Next as shown in the user interface view with reference number the user performs a jog gesture as represented by the gesture symbol with reference number . For example with some embodiments a jog gesture is performed by continuously holding or pressing a finger to the touch screen display and then moving the finger in a first direction e.g. up and then in the opposite direction e.g. down . As illustrated in performance of the jog gesture causes the email that is being previewed e.g. preview view of email to be dynamically updated with the next preceding email in the list of emails e.g. the list presented in user interface view in . Here again the presentation of the previewed content item may be animated to correspond with and reflect the motion of the user s finger. For instance the list or preview view of the email may slide up and down with the motion of the user s finger as the user performs the jog gesture. The updated list or preview view of the email is shown in with reference number in the user interface view with reference number .

In the user interface view with reference number the user repeats the jog gesture represented by gesture symbol and the list view of the previewed email is updated to show the next immediately preceding email in the list of emails. This previewed email is shown in with reference number . To select the presently previewed email the user simply lifts his finger from the touch screen display after performing the jog gesture represented by gesture symbol . In this manner while maintaining a view of the presently selected email e.g. email in the user can jog through the list of emails and select a previewed email of interest.

Turning now to the mobile computing device is shown again and illustrates an example of the user interface view transitions that occur when a user is jogging through the list of emails in the other direction that is to preview emails that follow the presently selected email in the list of emails. As shown in the user interface view with reference number a user has performed a gesture represented by the gesture symbol . Specifically the user has pressed a finger to the touch screen display and then moved his finger in an upward direction thereby revealing a list or preview view of the email that immediately follows the presently selected and displayed email in the list of emails. This previewed email is shown with reference number in user interface view .

To view the next immediately following email in the list of emails the user performs the jog gesture represented by the gesture symbol shown with respect to the user interface view with reference number . Performance of the jog gesture causes the mobile computing device to update or refresh the previewed email with the next immediately following email in the list of emails. This previewed email is shown with reference number in the user interface view with reference number .

Finally to select the previewed email e.g. the email shown in list view in user interface view the user simply lifts his finger from the touch screen display as represented by the gesture symbol with reference number in the user interface view with reference number after completing the gesture represented by gesture symbol . The result of this gesture is a detailed view of the selected email as shown in the user interface view with reference number .

If the user continues to hold his finger still and in place on the touch screen display as represented by the gesture symbol with reference number in user interface view the computing device will periodically refresh the display of the previewed email to show the next immediately preceding email in the list of emails. As shown in the user interface view with reference number as the user continues to hold his finger on the touch screen display as represented with gesture symbol the computing device continues to jog through the list and update the view of the previewed email . To select a content item being previewed the user simply lifts his finger when the content item is being previewed. This results in a selection of the content item being previewed and in turn the selected item being displayed in a detailed view. If the user would like to end previewing of the emails the user simply moves his finger to the starting position of the gesture represented by gesture symbol .

With some embodiments the rate at which the computing device updates or refreshes the view of the previewed content items increases in correlation with the length of time that the user holds his finger to the touch screen device. For example as the duration of time for which the user has held his finger to the touch screen display increases the rate at which previewed items are displayed and refreshed increases. This allows a user to rapidly navigate through an extremely long list of content items.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules or objects that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules and objects referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules and or objects.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine or computer but deployed across a number of machines or computers. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or within the context of software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. In particular plural instances may be provided for components operations or structures described herein as a single instance. Furthermore boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of the invention s . In general structures and functionality presented as separate components in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the invention s .

Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

