---

title: System and method for rendering data
abstract: A method of viewing information associated with data in a spreadsheet, includes providing a document including data and information associated with the data, parsing the document to retrieve the associated information, processing the associated information to break the associated information down into at least one sentence, categorizing the at least one sentence to determine whether the at least one sentence corresponds to at least one category in a taxonomy corresponding to the data, assigning an association strength to the categorized at least one sentence, the association strength indicating a likelihood that the categorized at least one sentence actually corresponds to the at least one category in the taxonomy, filtering the at least one categorized sentence based on the association strength to determine whether to match the categorized at least one sentence with the at least one category in the taxonomy and outputting only the categorized at least one sentence matched with the at least one category in the taxonomy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08468442&OS=08468442&RS=08468442
owner: RR Donnelley Financial, Inc.
number: 08468442
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110208
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 788 558 filed Apr. 20 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 917 841 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 397 105 filed Apr. 4 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 877 678 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 214 083 filed Aug. 29 2005 now abandoned the entire contents of each of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to financial data and more particularly to a system and method for rendering data.

The Sarbanes Oxley Act the Act is legislation that affects corporate governance financial disclosure and the practice of public accounting. The Act was signed into law largely in response to numerous corporate accounting scandals. The Act requires executives boards of directors and auditors to take precise measures to bring about greater corporate accountability and transparency.

In the electronic format a file containing a financial statement is usually not coded to indicate the type of information represented by each line or column of text. In order to have a computer extract the desired information from the file the content of the file has to be identified. That is the various tables in the file have to be recognized and the content within each table has to be parsed and broken down to their constituent parts.

Once the data is recognized and broken down it can be normalized and manipulated. For example the normalized data can be placed in a spreadsheet program or a database program The performance of the company can then be illustrated and analyzed by various mathematical statistical or financial models within the functional capabilities of the spreadsheet program. The relationship between various financial statement entries can be compared and hypothetical situations can be generated and tested. Furthermore industry analysis can be performed as well by gathering and collating data from the financial statements of several companies. Thus there is great incentive for identifying and parsing the content of a file containing a financial statement.

A spreadsheet is a programming tool specifically adapted to the manipulation of financial data and provides a rich programming and modeling environment using a number of tools and macros that are familiar to most users of financial data. The cells of a spreadsheet can be used to store both data and formulas for manipulating data. And as spreadsheet functionality is improved users familiar with the capabilities of their particular spreadsheet program become dependent on those functions. An example of the improved functionality of spreadsheet programs U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 151 to Cahill et al. incorporated by reference herein for all purposes provides for a spreadsheet program that will recognize new object data types i.e. those in addition to the typical spreadsheet data types such as numbers texts date. Boolean and error and store the new object data types in the cells of the spreadsheet. There have also been inventions developed to parse data and render such data in a spreadsheet such as U.S. Pat. No. 5 893 131 to Kornfeld for a method and apparatus for parsing data incorporated by reference herein for all purposes and U.S. application Ser. No. 10 086 522 U.S. publication no. 20030037038 to Block et al. for a method for adding metadata to data incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

In the past in order to obtain the utility provided by a spreadsheet with financial data such as that supplied to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SEC a spreadsheet user would copy and paste the relevant information from a document from a data provider into the spreadsheet for further use and analysis. Not only was this process cumbersome and time consuming but it also allows the introduction of data errors into the spreadsheet. In addition there was no method for reversing the process from the spreadsheet program to the online data provider.

To facilitate the flow of corporate financial information from public companies to analysts regulators and investors Extensible Business Reporting Language XBRL was developed. XBRL is a meta data standard or data that describes data. That is an XBRL tag associated with a number or text describes the meaning of the data. For example assume that a company announces that it produced 5.7 Mil. in 2003. With no context it is difficult to determine what the number in this statement relates to. It could mean for example the company s revenue gross margin executive salaries etc. However XBRL can be used to place a tag indicating that the 5.7 Mil. represents revenue for the year 2003.

XBRL is quickly becoming a global standard for the preparation of financial information for facilitating its transfer and ease of usability. XBRL tags financial information so that it can be tracked from interactions with vendors etc. and so that it can readily be used in reports for operating divisions of a company consolidated earnings releases etc. Systems have been developed for converting financial documents into XBRL. For example Rivet Software has developed a system called Dragon Tag that is used for this purpose. There are also other companies that provide XBRL tagged data. For example Edgar Online provides XBRI tagged SEC filing data and OneSource provides access to U.K. financial data in XBRL.

One goal of the push to derive such a standard for financial information is to enable an entire new generation of Web services that will make it easier for financial analysts and regulators to locate problems in financial data executives to compare their company to competitors and analysts to identify performing stocks.

Documents such as financial documents often include information besides that in the main body of the document. This information is referred to herein as associated information . This associated information may include for example footnotes head notes management discussion etc. Although the associated information may not be included in the main body of the financial document it may nevertheless contain important information that can be useful when evaluating the financials of a company.

It would be beneficial to enable users to view the associated information along with the information in the main body of a document so that the associated information can be viewed in context.

This application describes tools in the form of methodologies apparatuses and systems for viewing information associated with data in a spreadsheet. The tools may be embodied in one or more computer programs stored on a computer readable medium or program storage device and or transmitted in the form of a computer data signal in one or more segments via a computer network or other transmission medium.

A method of viewing information associated with data in a spreadsheet includes providing a document including data and information associated with the data parsing the document to retrieve the associated information processing the associated information to break the associated information down into at least one sentence categorizing the at least one sentence to determine whether the at least one sentence corresponds to at least one category in a taxonomy corresponding to the data assigning an association strength to the categorized at least one sentence the association strength indicating a likelihood that the categorized at least one sentence actually corresponds to the at least one category in the taxonomy filtering the at least one categorized sentence based on the association strength to determine whether to match the categorized at least one sentence with the at least one category in the taxonomy and outputting only the categorized at least one sentence matched with the at least one category in the taxonomy.

A system for viewing information associated with data in a spreadsheet includes a module for providing a document including data and information associated with the data a module for parsing the document to retrieve the associated information a module for processing the associated information to break the associated information down into at least one sentence a module for categorizing the at least one sentence to determine whether the at least one sentence corresponds to at least one category in a taxonomy corresponding to the data a module for assigning an association strength to the categorized at least one sentence the association strength indicating a likelihood that the categorized at least one sentence actually corresponds to the at least one category in the taxonomy a module for filtering the at least one categorized sentence based on the association strength to determine whether to match the categorized at least one sentence with the at least one category in the taxonomy and a module for outputting only the categorized at least one sentence matched with the at least one category in the taxonomy.

A computer recording medium including computer executable code for viewing information associated with data in a spreadsheet. The computer executable code includes

code for providing a document including data and information associated with the data code for parsing the document to retrieve the associated information code for processing the associated information to break the associated information down into at least one sentence code for categorizing the at least one sentence to determine whether the at least one sentence corresponds to at least one category in a taxonomy corresponding to the data code for assigning an association strength to the categorized at least one sentence the association strength indicating a likelihood that the categorized at least one sentence actually corresponds to the at least one category in the taxonomy code for filtering the at least one categorized sentence based on the association strength to determine whether to match the categorized at least one sentence with the at least one category in the taxonomy and code for outputting only the categorized at least one sentence matched with the at least one category in the taxonomy.

The following exemplary embodiments are set forth to aid in an understanding of the subject matter of this disclosure but are not intended and may not be construed to limit in any way the claims which follow thereafter. Therefore while specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity in describing some exemplary embodiments the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner.

The computer system can include a central processing unit CPU program and data storage devices a printer interface a display unit a LAN local area network data transmission controller a LAN interface a network controller an internal bus and one or more input devices for example a keyboard mouse etc. . As shown the system may be connected to a database via a link .

The computer system is merely exemplary. The specific embodiments described herein are illustrative computer system s as referred to herein may include s individual computers servers computing resources networks etc. and many variations can be introduced on these embodiments without departing from the spirit of the disclosure or from the scope of the appended claims.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure financial documents in XBRL are rendered into a spreadsheet preferably Microsoft Excel. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the present system is delivered through a Dynamic Link Library DLL and is registered upon installation as a spreadsheet add in. Although Microsoft Excel is used herein as an example of a spreadsheet program other spreadsheet programs may be utilized in its place. In addition according to another embodiment of the present disclosure the present system may be compiled as part of the actual spreadsheet program and is not a part of the DLL.

An overall architecture of a system for rendering financial documents into a spreadsheet is shown in According to this embodiment of the present disclosure the present system is an add in to the spreadsheet . The add in will be referred to herein as financial data system or simply system . Database may consist of one or more databases and or other types of sources of business and financial information. For example database may include source financial disclosure documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Database may also include other types of source documents from which business and financial information can be obtained. An online financial data web service such as for example the service offered by Edgar Online Inc. is accessed by the present system via the Internet . In response to a query generated by system for specific financial data financial data online web service will access the appropriate data from database and return the data to system . For example according to an embodiment of the present disclosure an XML response including an XBRL instance document is returned to system . Utilizing the instance document and taxonomies locally or remotely available to it system then populates spreadsheet as appropriate. This bi directional compatibility with standard XML and XBRL taxonomies allows the direct use of the functional capabilities of the spreadsheet program such as custom macros existing models and work sheet.

Because not all companies use the same terminology the taxonomies used by standards organizations also include synonyms and alternative phrases that have the same meaning. For example synonyms for Sales could include Revenues or Fees . Cost of Goods Sold might be Cost of Goods or Cost of Sales . Taxonomies and their extensions are used to define the information Labels. For example in a financial report the label followed by a numerical value indicates that the numerical value relates to company s Sales followed by a numerical value indicates that the value represents the company s Cost of Goods Sold. Since Gross Profit is Sales minus Cost of Goods Sold computers could access third party reports that show these values and easily calculate the Gross Profit with a simple rule that says .

Embodiments of the present disclosure thus provide methods and systems for automating entry of XML and XBRL compliant data into non XML or non XBRL compliant programs or applications. In addition to rendering the XML and XBRL compliant data into a spreadsheet compatible format the present system also provides for transmitting data in a format compliant with the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . Briefly SOAP is a way for a program running in one kind of operating system to communicate with a program in the same or a different kind of operating system by using the Internet s HTTP and XML as the mechanisms for information exchange.

Various aspects of the present system will now be described. It should be noted that although described as an add in to a spreadsheet in the alternative the present system may itself include a fully functional spreadsheet.

The Fundamental Data Wizard FDW allows a user to enter and create a query or load an existing saved query used to retrieve data from an online data service such as for example EDGAR Online Highlighting and clicking on FDW a screen such as that shown in is displayed. This window allows a user to create or load a query by selecting one of buttons and . Selecting button the user is prompted to input a file name for a file they want to review. Selecting button and inputting a query name in window allows the user to retrieve from storage a previously saved query. Selecting button the user is prompted to create a new query. After the user has made a selection and presses the NEXT button the screen shown in is displayed.

The screen shown in is the primary interface for requesting data. The user is given an option to select a type of data set they would like to select. For example using pull down menu the user is given an option to select Standardized Summary Fundamentals or As Reported data sets. Standardized is a data set that includes information which has been converted into standard XBRL. Summary Fundamentals is a summary data set or summarized version of the Standardized data set. That is the format of Summary Fundamentals is XBRL but the number of data points is standardized at 75. This data set is particularly useful for users who want to analyze companies on a high end basis. The As Reported data set leverages the naming conventions and structure of a company s filing. For example for each company selected a dataset is provided which includes the actual labels that were used within the company s filings with the SEC as well as the associated data. The As Reported data set is XBRL created by an online financial data web service such as Edgar Online from documents filed with the SEC. The As Reported data set can be useful for analysts who cover a particular company and need to understand the labels and values a company is using to represent their financials. It should be noted that since different companies often use different conventions and structure for their company filings the As Reported data set can generally not be used to compare one company to another company. Although not shown the present system can also provide an option to select a SEC Filed dataset which enables users to request and retrieve data from XBRL financials that were filed by companies directly as XBRL documents with the SEC.

The system also allows the user to enter one or more company ticker symbols separated by spaces in the Symbol box or the selection text box . Pressing Add to List button adds the entered companies to a list of companies in the system. The user can also enter a list of company symbols separated by spaces in the company symbol input box or in the selection text box and click on the Add to List button which will add each of the companies to the system. The user can also provide a range of cells from the spreadsheet that includes company ticker symbols into box . Pressing Add to List button then adds those companies to the system s list. If the ticker symbol of a company is not known pressing Lookup Symbol button will prompt the user to input the name of a company. The system will then perform a lookup to determine the appropriate ticker symbol for the company and present that information to the user. The system can access the ticker symbol information online using an appropriate database search engine or can have the information already loaded locally into the computer the system is running on and perform the search locally. Selecting File button allows the user to select from an existing file of company ticker symbols.

After a company or companies have been selected the user can select the period for which they would like to examine data. For example the user is given an option to select the period by clicking on one of the Annual Quarterly and Other tabs. When the Annual tab has been selected the user is presented with a window giving the user several options for selecting data as shown in . For example selecting Previous button allows the user to request the last X number of fiscal years of annual data where X is a number of years input by the user in box . It should be noted that the system will only return data for years for which data exists. For example if a user requests four years of fiscal data and only two years worth of data was ever filed only those two years of data will be returned and displayed. In the alternative the user is given the option to select Fiscal Years button and to enter the years for which they would like data in boxes and . Checking the Include Quarterly Data button allows the user to retrieve the quarterly data associated with the annual data that has been selected.

Selecting the Quarterly tab the user is also given several options for selecting data as shown in . For example the user can select Previous button and enter the number of quarters in box for which data is desired. Selecting the Fiscal Quarters button the user can request data between any two fiscal quarters input by the user in boxes . Selecting the Calendar Dates button the user can request data for quarters that occurred between the two dates input by the user in boxes . Checking box will retrieve annual data that may have been filed between the selected quarters.

Selecting the Other tab allows the user to request data for year to date and trailing twelve month periods using the window shown in . For example selecting the Most Recent Quarter button allows the user to select the most recent quarter of data. Selecting the Fiscal Quarter button allows the user to select the specific fiscal quarter input by the user in boxes . Selecting the Quarter by Date button allows the user to select a specific quarter by the dates input by the user in boxes . The user is also given the option to select data types. For example checking YTD Data box the user can request consolidated data for the current fiscal year. Checking TTM Data box the user can request data for the trailing twelve months e.g. the sum of the last four quarters . Checking the Include Quarterly Data box the user can retrieve quarterly data for the selected period.

Returning to the user can also select what type of data is returned using the Calculation Filter drop down menu which gives the user options None Enhanced or Preferred. Selecting None the system only returns values for elements that have been provided by the reporting company. Selecting Enhanced returns values for elements that have been provided by the reporting company or have been rolled up calculated as per U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP by an online company such as for example EDGAR Online. Selecting Preferred returns values for elements based upon US GAAP accounting rules. With the Preferred option company provided roll ups will be overwritten. The Preferred option presents a US GAAP representation of a company s financials.

By default the system will always return the most recent data available for a company. However the user can modify this behavior by clicking on the Most Recent Financial Results Edit button which then presents the user with a Result Option. menu as shown in . This menu allows the user to select the source and types of data to include in the results and can be used to retrieve virtually any type of available data from any type of available document including for example non SEC sources. The following are just examples of the types of data that can be retrieved. Embodiments of the present disclosure are of course not limited to the shown examples. The user can select data types by checking the Preliminary Reports box and or the Annual Quarterly Results box and or Estimates box . Selecting Preliminary Reports box will return preliminary fundamental data derived from 8K earnings releases in the result Selecting Annual Quarterly Results box will include fundamental data derived from 10K 10K A 10Q 10Q A as well as 20F 40F and 6K foreign filing data in the result. The retrieved information may also include information derived form S1 S1 A etc. captured from information provided by new issuers. Selecting Estimates box will include earning estimate information in the data returned. By default both the Earning Releases and the Annual Quarterly Results options are selected. Data filters can also be selected by checking Original Results box Amended Results box and or Restated Results box . Checking Original Results box will include data from the originally filed 10K or 10Q in the result Checking Amended Results box will include data filed in a 10K A or 10Q A in the result. Checking Restated Results box will include data from a restated 8K 10K or 10Q in the result. By default each of these data filters is selected so that original restated and amended data will be returned unless otherwise specified by the user.

In addition by default the system will return results in a single column of data for each of the selected period s . The column of data is derived from the most recent data based upon the criteria selected. In the alternative however the user can check Return Results Individually box to see each of the options included in the results listed in individual columns for the selected period. This will return all results for the selected time period and not just the most recent. When all selections have been made pressing the OK button will save the selections for this and all future queries until changed.

Returning to Advanced Options button allows the user to personalize the way content is displayed in the spreadsheet After all selections are made in these windows clicking Next button brings the user to a window such as that shown in which allows the user to have the results placed in a new worksheet button or an existing worksheet button . When selecting an existing worksheet pull down box will present the user with a list of all available worksheets from which the user can choose.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when selecting an existing worksheet the system will overwrite the contents of the worksheet with the results of the query.

After completing this window clicking Next button brings the user to a window such as that shown in which allows the user to save the query so that it can be run again in the future. If the user does not desire to save the query the query can be run by clicking on Pull Query button in which case the query will be run and the information will automatically populate into the spreadsheet. If the user desires to save the query after checking the Yes box and inputting a query title in box the query can be saved by clicking on the Save As File button . Clicking on Save Run button will then save and run the query with the information automatically populating into the spreadsheet.

Returning to according to an embodiment of the present disclosure a user may choose a Market Data Wizard by highlighting and selecting Market Data Wizard from main menu . Upon selecting the Market Data Wizard the user is presented with a screen such as that shown in . This screen allows a user to load and run an existing query or to create a new query and is similar to the Fundamental Data Wizard window shown in .

After a selection is made and the Next button is pressed the user is presented with a screen such as that shown in which is the primary interface for requesting market data.

The user enter a company ticker symbol search for a company by name or load a comma separated tile of company tickers using the inputs in a manner similar to that described above with respect to . The user can then select what data to retrieve. The market data type tabs on the screen allow the user to select historical data Historical tab or intraday data tab with historical data being the default selection. Selection of the Historical tab allows the user to identify the field of data from window to retrieve from a service provider such as for example EDGAR Online. The user can select from several fields including Open which will return the opening stock price Close which will return the closing stock price High which will return the Highest stock price Low which will return the lowest stock price and Volume which will return the amount of shares traded. Highlighting a field and clicking on the button will add that field to the requested data and that field will be displayed in the Selected Fields area . Highlighting a field and clicking the button will remove a field from the list of requested data. Clicking on or 

Selecting the intraday tab the user is presented with a Screen such as that shown In which allows the user to identify the type of data to retrieve from the online service provider. The available fields are displayed in window . The available fields and their descriptions are shown in . Highlighting a field and clicking on the button adds the field to the requested data and displays the field in Selected Fields window .

Highlighting a field and clicking the button removes the field from the list of selected fields. Just clicking on button or 

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide several methods for the retrieval of data into a spreadsheet such as Microsoft Excel. One method is to add a function call This allows users to select a specific field of data and place it in a selected cell of the spreadsheet. There are several ways to add a function call to a cell. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure this can be done directly by writing a function call by typing in the function name and parameters. According to another embodiment this can be done using a function builder to retrieve data. In either case the function call can be used to retrieve both fundamental and market data into the spreadsheet.

Writing a function call to retrieve fundamental data will now be described. Retrieving fundamental data the function call uses required and optional parameters. This information includes symbol dataset field type year quarter filter eligible and reports.

The symbol information refers to the ticker symbol of the company the user would like to retrieve data for. The dataset information refers to the dataset the user would like to retrieve date from. The datasets include for example Standardized XBRL Dataset STD Summary XBRL Dataset SUM and As Reported Dataset SCPEC and SEC filed which is XBRL filed by a company with the SEC. The field information refers to the XBRL field the user would like to retrieve from the selected dataset. The type information refers to the type of data the user would like to retrieve. The user has the option of the type Type of data to retrieve. For example the user can specify Annual A Quarterly Q Trailing Twelve Months T and Year to Date Y data as desired. The year information refers to the fiscal year the user would like to retrieve data for. The user has the option of specifying a specific year or selecting from several mnemonics including for example the last fiscal year FY the last fiscal year 1 FYI the last fiscal year 2 FY2 the last fiscal year 3 FY3 and the last fiscal year 4 FY4 . The quarter information refers to the fiscal quarter the user would like to retrieve data for. The user has the option of specifying a specific quarter e.g. fiscal quarter 1 2 3 or 4 . The user also can also select from several mnemonics including for example last fiscal year FQ Last Fiscal Year 1 FQ1 Last Fiscal Year 2 FQ2 Last Fiscal Year 3 FQ3 Last Fiscal Year 4 FQ4 Last Fiscal Year 20 FQ20 . The Fiscal Quarter parameter is required if the user sets the Type Q T or Y . If the user sets Type A they do not have to provide a Quarter parameter. The filter information refers to the calculation view the user would like to apply to the results. Options include for example None A Enhanced C and Preferred P . If the user does not specify a filter the system will default to Enhanced. The Eligible Reports information allows the user to specify the type of information to include in the results. By default the system will return the most recent data available for the specified period. However available options include for example RCNT the default if not otherwise specified which returns the most recent report for the selected period. PRELIM will include preliminary results 8K earnings releases in the result. ORIG will include original filed results for the selected period in the result. AMEND will include amendments for the selected period in the result. RESTATE will include restated information for the selected period in the result. AUDIT will only include audited information for the selected period in the result. More than one option can be specified by separating them by commas. Each of the flags has three states Include Positive and Negative. The Include state indicates to not use the flag in generating the results. This is the default option and to specify this option the user does not specify the flag. A Positive state will only return results that match the flag. To return results that match the flag this option is specified in the eligible reports parameter. A Negative state indicates to never return results that match the flag. To return results that do not match the flag the user can specify this option in the eligible reports parameter prefaced with an exclamation point .

If for example the user wanted to request only audited results they would set the eligible reports parameter to AUDIT . If the user does not want to retrieve preliminary information they would set the parameter to PRELIM . If they would like to retrieve only preliminary information they would set the parameter to PRELIM . If they would only like to retrieve restated information they would set the parameter to ORIG AMEND . The reason a user would select ORIG AMEND is when they do not want to ignore the ORIG and AMEND flags but rather only include values where neither are true.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure the user can type the function call directly into the cell following the procedure shown in . The user first highlights the cell where the function call is to be added Step S . The user then types in the name of the function call followed by values it parenthesis Step S . For example if the user wanted to retrieve Operating Revenue for Microsoft for the 3Quarter of 2003 the user would enter the following information into the spreadsheet cell 

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a function call can be written to retrieve market data. When retrieving market data the function call takes the following required and optional parameters Symbol Dataset Field and Date.

The Symbol parameter refers to the ticker symbol of the company the user would like to retrieve data for. The Dataset parameter refers to the dataset the user would like to retrieve data. from. The available datasets include Historical Dataset HIST and Intraday Dataset INTRA . The Field parameter refers to the field the user would like to retrieve. For the Historical Dataset the fields include Opening Price OPEN Closing Price Close Daily High HIGH Daily Low LOW and Daily Volume VOLUME . For the Intraday Dataset the fields include ExchangeCode SecurityCode LastTrade Change PercentChange Tick DateTime Time Ask Bid High Low Open Volume AnnHigh AnnLow Dividend EPS Close PE Yield Delay Halt Beta TSO and MarketCap. Date is an optional parameter for specifying the date associated with the data the user would like to retrieve. The format may be entered for example as MM DD YYYY HH MM.

The user can type the function call directly into the cell. To do so highlight the cell where the function call should be added and type the name of the function call followed by values in parenthesis. For example if the user wanted to retrieve Open price for Microsoft for Apr. 28 2005 the user could enter the following information into the spreadsheet cell 

Once the user has entered the function call pressing the Enter button will retrieve the data and populate the cell with the value. Again it should be noted that if no value is returned and the user s Internet connection is active the company has not filed a value for the requested field. In addition to including direct values as the parameters to the function call the user can reference other cells in the spreadsheet.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a function builder may be used to retrieve fundamental data. A Fundamental Data Function Builder guides the user through the process of creating function calls and placing them in cells. This enables users to quickly and easily retrieve individual data. elements and include them in custom templates and models. To access the Fundamental Data Function Builder from main menu the user selects Fundamental Data Function Builder . This will launch the Fundamental Data Function Builder which consists of one screen as shown in .

The Fundamental Data Function Builder includes several sections which help the user to retrieve the data they are interested in. For example Select Data Set pull down menu allows the user to select the data set that they would like to retrieve the data from. Available datasets include for example Standardized which is the US GAAP Standardized Dataset Summary Fundamentals which is the summarized version of the Standardized dataset and As Reported which is a dataset leveraging the naming conventions and structure of the company s filings and SK Filed which is XBRL filed by a company with the SEC.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure not all users will be presented with the same options. That is according to this embodiment the list shown in pull down menu will only be populated with the datasets to which the user subscribes.

Taxonomy in essence is a data dictionary. As mentioned above different companies may use different taxonomies for their data. By entering a company e.g. company ticker symbol into box a user can load the taxonomy or taxonomies associated with the company the user is analyzing. When analyzing multiple companies the user should select one of the companies to use. Once the company s ticker symbol or a cell location which contains the company s ticker symbol is entered into box clicking on the Load Taxonomies button will load the available taxonomies for that company. A list of taxonomies associated with each. company can be stored at the users location for example on the user s computer system or locally accessible by the user s computer system or can be stored at an online data provider such as EDGAR Online and later retrieved by the present system. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the present system will display the URL s to the taxonomies associated with the company in a drop down list . In addition according to an embodiment the present system will load a list of elements available in this taxonomy. Data Element area displays all of the elements included in the selected data set. An example of a data set is shown in . Selecting elements with signs next to them will expand the tree and display each elements children.

In the center of the screen information is displayed that is tied to the selected data element. This information includes for example the full Label for the data element the type of Balance debit or credit and the financial definition or Description of the data element. The information is displayed next to the appropriate heading.

Pull down menu is referred to herein as the linkbase selector and allows the user to select the type of information about the element which they would like to retrieve through the function call. The user can select from several options including Instance Document which is the default option. As shown in selecting Instance Document then allows the user to select Content Reference Precision and Unit Reference. The parameter is the default and will return the value associated with the element. Context Reference will return the context identifier associated with the element. Precision will return the precision that should be applied to the value. Unit Reference will return the units the value is being displayed in e.g. USD JPY . . . Other options that can. be selected in pull down menu include Taxonomy Which allows the user to select attributes associated with the taxonomy Calculation Linkbase which allows the user to select attributes that define how information has been calculated Label Linkbase which allows the user to select attributes system. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the present system will display the URL s to the taxonomies associated with the company in a drop down list . In addition according to an embodiment the present system will load a list of elements available in this taxonomy. Data Element area displays all of the elements included in the selected data set. An example of a data set is shown in . Selecting elements with signs next to them will expand the tree and display each elements children.

In the center of the screen information is displayed that is tied to the selected data element. This information includes for example the full Label for the data element the type of Balance debit or credit and the financial definition or Description of the data element. The information is displayed next to the appropriate heading.

Pull down menu is referred to herein as the linkbase selector and allows the user to select the type of information about the element which they would like to retrieve through the function call. The user can select from several options including Instance Document which is the default option. As shown in selecting Instance Document then allows the user to select Content Reference Precision and Unit Refer ice. The parameter is the default and will return the value associated with the element Context Reference will return the context identifier associated with the element. Precision will return the precision that should be applied to the value. Unit Reference will return the units the value is being displayed in e.g. USD JPY . . . Other options that can be selected in pull down menu include Taxonomy Which allows the user to select attributes associated with the taxonomy Calculation Linkbase which allows the user to select attributes that define how information has been calculated Label Linkbase which allows the user to select attributes that describe the field such as labels as descriptions Presentation Linkbase which allows the user to select attributes that describe how elements relate to each other parents children Reference Linkbase which allows the user to select attributes that provide reference information about the data and Company Information such as name address exchange etc.

Once the user has selected the information they are interested in Macro Settings portion of the display allows the user to select the company period etc. for which they would like to retrieve data. Specific options include for example Symbol in which the user can input the symbol of the company to retrieve data for and Period in which the user can indicate the specific period they are interested in. In particular dropdown menu allows the user to choose from Annual to retrieve annual data Quarterly to retrieve quarterly data Trailing Twelve Months to retrieve trailing twelve month TTM data and Year to Date to retrieve Year To Date YTD data.

The user can also select using drop down list the specific fiscal quarter the user would like to retrieve data for. For example the user can select the last fiscal quarter or any of the previous fiscal quarters from the current fiscal quarter from the drop down list . The user can also select using drop down list the fiscal year the user would like to retrieve data for. For example the user can select a specific year or select the last fiscal year from the drop down list to retrieve annual data quarterly data trailing twelve month TTM data or Year To Date YTD data. Calculation View drop down list allows the user to select the calculation filter the user would like to apply to the result. The Calculation View drop down list is only available when the attribute . This drop down list when available allows the user to select None which only returns values for elements that have been provided by the reporting company. Enhanced which returns values for elements that have been provided by the reporting company or have been rolled up calculated as per US GAAP by a data provider such as for example EDGAR Online Preferred which returns values for elements based upon US GAAP accounting rules company provided roll ups will be overwritten which presents a US GAAP representation of a company s financials.

After all fields are filled where appropriate clicking on the Write Function button will write a function call to the currently highlighted cell if no cell is highlighted the user should select a cell with the mouse and then press the Write Function button . Once pressed the results will be retrieved and displayed in the selected cell. Users are also given the ability to select an item in the drop down menu and drag the item to a cell on the spreadsheet.

A function builder may also be used to retrieve market data. Clicking on the Market Data Function Builder button from the main menu selects the Market Data Function Builder. The Market Data Function Builder allows the user to create a function call that retrieves the market data for a company and places it in a user defined cell. An example of a Market Data Function Builder is shown in .

The user first highlights or otherwise selects the cell in the spreadsheet where the user would like the data to he placed. The user then inserts the Symbol or a cell reference that contains the symbol of the company for which the user would like to retrieve data into box . The user can also lookup a company symbol using button . The user can then define the Macro Properties in area . Pull down menu allows the user to retrieve data from a chosen dataset. The datasets the user can choose from include a Historical Dataset and an Intraday Dataset. Field allows the user to use a pull down menu to select a field to retrieve from. When Historical Dataset is chosen the user is given the option of selecting from the following fields Opening Price Closing Price Daily High Daily Low and Daily Volume. The user can then select the date for which they would like to retrieve data by entering it into box . When Intraday Dataset is chosen the user can select from the following fields ExchangeCode SecurityCode LastTrade Change PercentChange Tick DateTime Time Ask Bid High Low Open Volume AnnHigh AnnLow Dividend EPS Close PE Yield Delay Halt Beta TSO and MarketCap. After entering the above described information by clicking on the Write Macro button the data will be retrieved and placed into the selected cell in the spreadsheet.

The wizard creates a function call in the cell to retrieve the data for the stock price as shown in . In the example shown the function call will retrieve the opening date price for Microsoft on Mar. 29 2005. As shown in column B row 2 the spreadsheet is populated with the opening price on that day of 24.13.

Another option on main menu is Sheet Properties . The Sheet Properties option is used to view the properties of an active worksheet that is currently being displayed and is used to make a new request or to view update a request that was previously made. For example Sheet Properties allows a user to modify the properties of previously requested data or to select new data into a worksheet currently being displayed. The Sheet Properties window is similar to the second screen of the Fundamental Data Wizard shown in . Using the Sheet Properties window the user can modify or make selections exactly as described above with respect to the Fundamental Data Wizard screen shown in . Accordingly operation of the Sheet Properties window will not be further described in detail herein. Once the user is satisfied with the selections pressing the Run Query button will retrieve the results into the active worksheet. Any contents found in the active worksheet will be over written.

The Login Switch User menu option allows the user to work offline or another user to access data. The Connect Management Option menu option allows a user to enable application logging easily remove downloaded files and to modify the location of the online web service being used.

Once the data has been retrieved embodiments of the present disclosure allow the user to perform a number of functions. For example according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the user can link back to an original document that shows exactly what document and from where in the document a particular value was retrieved. This is referred to herein as a linkbase feature. To activate this feature the user right clicks on a cell containing the value of interest. shows an example of a spreadsheet created by a user utilizing the present disclosure that. displays Cash and Cash Equivalents for Microsoft for 2004. Upon right clicking on the value 14 304 000 000 a menu will be displayed as shown. Clicking on Go to source document will then launch a window that will display the reported filing from which the value was retrieved an example of which is shown in . As shown the value was retrieved from a Cash and Equivalents column of 10 K Filing dated Aug. 26 2005. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the column containing the value of interest is highlighted for ease of reference.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure a financial data system is capable of displaying various types of information associated with the main financial information being displayed. For example according to an embodiment of the present disclosure a system allows users to view footnote information as it relates to different types of tabular data shown in the main body of a report.

Documents such as financial documents often include information besides that in the main body of the document. This information is referred to herein as associated information . This associated information may include for example footnotes head notes management discussion etc. Although the associated information may not be included in the main body of the financial document it may nevertheless contain important information that can be useful when evaluating the financials of a company.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure a text file for each document which includes the associated information section s is broken down into a list of sentences. Each sentence is marked and has an associated category and document identifier applied to it to allow it to be re inserted later in the document and highlighted. This information allows the user to later view the associated information in its proper context.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the footnote textual data can be parsed out of the document processed and later displayed in relation to information e.g. XBRL elements from the main body of the document. The footnote data is connected to one or more XBRL categories allowing the user to quickly view the footnote data in context with the corresponding XBRL element.

The information in financial documents can vary depending on the specific type of document. For example information in a corporate balance sheet can generally be broken down into one of the categories in the list shown in . The 23 categories also referred to as data points shown in correspond to a Commercial and Industrial C I taxonomy and in particular to XBRL labeled data in a Balance Sheet. Of course the list can be expanded to include other categories such as for example Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement data etc. in addition to data from Commercial and Industrial taxonomy other available XBRL taxonomies such as Oil and Gas Real Estate Insurance etc. can be provided for.

As shown in the categories include Assets which include Current Assets e.g. Cash and Cash Equivalents Short Term Investments etc. and Non Current Assets e.g. Property Plant and Equipment Long Term Investments etc. . Liabilities include Current Liabilities e.g. Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses Deferred Revenue etc. Non Current Liabilities e.g. Long Term Debt Long Term Capital Lease Obligations etc. and Retirement Obligations e.g. Deferred Tax Liability Minority Interest etc. As mentioned above this list of categories can be expanded to include other categories such as Income Statement Cash Flow Statement data etc.

Data in the main body of the balance sheet is assigned to and XBRL labeled to correspond to one or more of the categories shown in In addition according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the associated information e.g. footnotes can be parsed from the document categorized and assigned to one of more of these categories so that the information can later be easily retrieved and put into context by a user of the financial data system.

A system for categorizing associated information according to an embodiment of the present disclosure will now be described by reference to . An Associated Information Processing System according to an embodiment of the present disclosure is shown in . Operation of system will be described by reference to the flowchart shown in . A parsing module parses the associated information e.g. footnotes headnotes etc from a document Step S . Converting module converts the parsed data into a text file Step S and metadata module adds metadata uniquely identifying the text in the text file Step S The information is then sent to a categorization module Step S . Categorization module breaks down the text file into sentences Step S and categorizes each sentence Step S . For example categorization module runs each sentence against each category in the list see and determines association strength of each sentence to each category. Categorization module then outputs each sentence its matching categories and association strengths along with the metadata to threshold filter module Step S . Threshold filter module then performs threshold analysis to determine which category or categories to associate with each sentence Step S . Threshold filter module eliminates the sentences that do not match a category and eliminates matches for which the association strength is below a set value. System then outputs each sentence with matching categories Step S . Each matching sentence is linked back to its location in the document via document offset numbers. The offsets referred to above as document identifier are what allows the best matching sentence to be viewed in its context in addition to being viewed independently.

There are various types of processing systems that can be used to categorize data. An example of a categorization module is made by Alias I Inc. The module processes sentences and performs statistical matches against selected elements. For example according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the module rates each sentence from the associated notes against each category and outputs the results.

An example of operation of the categorization module Step S will be explained by reference to . The first sentence from the associated notes is retrieved Step S and rated against a first category e.g. Cash and Cash Equivalents . The result associated match strength is saved. If additional categories exist Yes Step S the process returns to Step S and rates the sentence against the next category. This process repeats until no additional categories exist No Step S . The module then outputs the sentence and the associated category matches as well as the match strengths Step S If additional sentences exist Yes Step S the process returns to Step S and process repeats. If no additional sentences exist the process ends Step S .

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the categorization module outputs the input string and its associated match strength represented as a number between zero and one. The module outputs the input string and its associated match strength represented as a number between zero and one. An associated match strength closer to one indicates a stronger match. That is the closer the associated match strength is to one the more likely it is that the sentence corresponds to the category. An associated match strength closer to zero indicates a weaker match. That is the closer the associated match strength is to zero the less likely it is that the sentence corresponds to the category.

An example of some of the information output by categorization module is shown in Categorization module outputs a Document ID which identifies the sentence. The Sentence Text ID shows at least a portion of the text of the sentence. Label Category shows the category or categories which the categorization module has associated with the sentence. Association Match Strength shows the relative strength of the match. In the example shown in the first sentence Document ID 1 matches the Investment Securities category with an association strength of 0.983066 approximately 98 . There are no other matches for this sentence. For the second sentence Document ID 2 there are three matches. The matches are Intangible Assets 0.01603284 or approx. 1.6 association strength Inventories 0.00539003 or approx 0.5 association strength and Investment Securities 0.0034696 or approx. 0.34 association strength respectively. Accordingly for the second sentence the best match is the category Intangible Assets although the association strength is weak.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the categorization module is trained prior to being used. For example according to an embodiment of the present disclosure prior to the categorization modules initial use each sentence in a training corpus is run blind against each category from a list and category matches are determined. Precision and recall measures are taken based on the ground truth of the category. For example since training data is being run against training data we know what the actual categories should be. That is for each sentence in a category A there are exactly that many in the test set . Accordingly if every A is correctly called A there is 100 precision and recall on that category . If the categorization module does not find all the A s e.g. it .finds some B s or C s the categorization module has a recall problem. Recall is the ratio of the number of relevant records retrieved to the total number of relevant records in the database and is usually expressed as a percentage. If the categorization module finds too many A s it has a precision problem. Precision is the ratio of the number of relevant records retrieved to the total number of irrelevant and relevant records retrieved and is also usually expressed as a percentage. If a recall and or precision problem exists parameters of the categorization module can be modified until the results output by the categorization module are acceptable.

Running such test runs on training data is known as a cheating experiment and although these test runs are an indication of whether the system is working properly and is generally considered a reliable way to judge training data quality it will be appreciated that results may vary greatly on subsequent test sets of real world data. Data in the training corpus that is not run during these testing rounds also referred to as held out data is run when the previous testing rounds are yielding good results. For example results are considered good when relevant sentence matches to categories are consistently above the level of matches of non relevant sentences. Various types of categorization techniques can be utilized by categorization module for the matching process. For example according to an embodiment of the present disclosure the matching process is a character based Bayesian statistical model. Of course other categorization techniques can be utilized as desired.

Threshold filter module filters the data so that only the match or matches having sufficient association strength are presented to the user. Various types of filtering strategies can be used to determine which match to present to the user if there are multiple matches. For example the filtering strategy could be best match in which case only the match with the highest association strength would be displayed. in the alternative a filtering strategy could be matches over n in which only matches with association strengths above a predefined value n are displayed. A filtering strategy could even be used in which all matches found can be displayed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure when multiple matches for a single sentence are displayed they are shown in rank order from highest association strength to lowest association strength. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the user is given an option to select which filtering strategy to use and to define the predefined value n as they desire.

There are various ways the associated information can be accessed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the user can access associated. information using a drop down menu. For example a user can right click on an area of interest in the document e.g. in a table or in the text and choose to view information associated with the information in the area of interest. As shown in when a user right clicks on an area of interest e.g. the value 2 865 in the displayed data the user is presented with a drop down menu giving the user the option to review the associated information relating to that area of interest by clicking View Related Notes . As shown in after clicking View Related Notes the user is presented with a related notes window showing the information extracted for each category with the category for the chosen information displayed on top.

The user can then click on a sentence to view the information in context. For example by clicking on sentence the user is presented with a display such as that shown in with the sentence highlighted and shown in its proper context.

According to other embodiments of the present disclosure the user can access the associated information by clicking a link to the footnotes information for example found in a task bar a header or right hand menu column near die area of interest.

For ease of description various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described above as using individual modules for implementing various features. However it will be appreciated that two or more e.g. all of these. modules may be combined into one or more module s for executing code for rendering components of the present disclosure.

The present system can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The system can be implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers al one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps associated with the present system can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps can also be performed by and apparatus of the disclosure can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and dim include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks CD ROMs Compact Disc Read only Memory and DVD ROMs Digital Versatile Disc Read only Memory . The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user the present disclosure can he implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The present system can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middle ware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the present disclosure or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the computing system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network.

The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

The present system has been described in terms of particular embodiments. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example although the present system has been described as a component in a larger system it can also be implemented in other systems or as a stand alone system.

Numerous additional modifications and variations of the present disclosure are possible in view of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the present disclosure may be practiced other than as specifically described herein. For example elements and or features of different illustrative embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

