---

title: Vibrational wave motor, lens barrel and camera
abstract: A vibrational wave motor which can realize a suitable drive performance and can be driven quietly. The vibrational wave motor includes: an electromechanical-conversion element excited by a driving signal; a vibrating element joined with the electromechanical-conversion element, and having a drive surface where a progressive vibrational wave is generated by the excitation; a relative motion member having a sliding surface pressure-contacting the drive surface of the vibrating element, and which is driven by the wave; and a driving device for providing the driving signal to the electromechanical-conversion element, wherein: the driving device provides the driving signal to the electromechanical-conversion element, the driving signal generating the wave satisfying a-value/λ≦0.00025 in the drive surface, where a vibration amplitude generated in the drive surface of the vibrating element is a-value, and a wavelength generated in the drive surface of the vibrating element is λ.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08513857&OS=08513857&RS=08513857
owner: Nikon Corporation
number: 08513857
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110128
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to Japanese Patent Applications No. 2010 025757 and No. 2010 025161 filed on Feb. 8 2010. The content of the application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The vibrational wave motor is intended to generate a progressive vibrational wave hereinafter abbreviated to progressive wave on a drive surface of an elastic body using expansion and contraction of a piezoelectric body as publicly known from Japanese Examined Patent Application Publication No. H1 17354 and so on. By this progressive wave elliptic motion occurs on the drive surface and a moving element in pressure contact with a crest of a wave of the elliptic motion is driven. Such a vibrational wave motor is characterized in that it has a high torque even when the revolution rate is low. For this reason the motor has the advantage that it is possible to omit the gears of a driving device in the case of the motor being mounted on the driving device and to achieve silent operation with the gear s noises being eliminated as well as to improve the positioning accuracy.

On the other hand the characteristics are unstable for this vibrational wave motor since it uses a vibration amplitude of about 1 m generated at the stator. For the purpose of solving this problem Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication No. S61 35178 discloses making the amplitude at least 1.5 times the surface roughness of the drive surface to improve the drive efficiency and drive performance.

According to a technique described in Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication No. S61 35178 in the case of a certain magnitude of the amplitude a suitable drive performance is obtained and silent driving is achieved. However if the vibration amplitude is too high the problems arise that the pressurization is not effective for the moving element abnormal noises occur or appropriate friction contact cannot be made between the moving element and the vibrating element so that satisfactory drive performance cannot be offered.

In recent years the abrasion resistance of materials of the drive surface has advanced and frictional wear has been reduced in the case where the vibrating element is made to generate a large vibration amplitude for the driving so that it has become possible to generate a large amplitude at the vibrating element. Accordingly there has been raised a new problem for optimizing a velocity control at the time of large amplitude driving.

In addition in a constitution such as in Japanese Examined Patent Application Publication No. H1 17354 for a constitution in which a vibrating element and a moving element are in frictional communication the efficiency and drive properties of the motor are influenced by the state of contact between the vibrating element and the moving element.

For example if the moving element has a low stiffness and a too large deformation amount then the moving element is deformed too much by complying with the amplitude of the vibrating element and is influenced by the nodes of the progressive wave negative velocity portions and the drive properties and efficiency at the time of low velocity rotation deteriorate.

On the contrary if the moving element has a high stiffness and a too small deformation amount then the contact state becomes unstable when the amplitude of the vibrating element becomes large which becomes a source for generating abnormal noise.

Conventionally driving has been performed in a regime in which the amplitude is relatively small because of insufficient abrasion resistance of the sliding material so that the above mentioned problem has not been particularly evident however in recent years the abrasion resistance of materials for the drive surface has advanced and the amount of frictional wear has been reduced in the case where the vibrating element is driven so as to generate a large vibration amplitude for the driving so that the above mentioned problem is becoming evident.

It is an object of the present invention to solve this problem and to provide a vibrational wave motor a lens barrel and a camera which can realize a suitable drive performance and can be driven quietly.

According to the first aspect of the present invention a vibrational wave motor is provided comprising an electromechanical conversion element excited by a driving signal a vibrating element joined with the electromechanical conversion element and having a drive surface where a progressive vibrational wave is generated by the excitation a relative motion member having a sliding surface pressure contacting the drive surface of the vibrating element and which is driven by the progressive vibrational wave and a driving device for providing the driving signal to the electromechanical conversion element wherein the driving device provides the driving signal to the electromechanical conversion element the driving signal generating the progressive vibrational wave satisfying a value 0.00025 in the drive surface where a vibration amplitude generated in the drive surface of the vibrating element is defined as the a value and a wavelength of the progressive wave generated in the drive surface of the vibrating element is defined as .

According to the second aspect of the present invention a vibrational wave motor is provided comprising an electromechanical conversion element excited by a driving signal a vibrating element joined with the electromechanical conversion element and having a drive surface where a progressive vibrational wave is generated by the excitation a relative motion member having a sliding surface pressure contacting the drive surface of the vibrating element and which is driven by the progressive vibrational wave and a driving device for providing the driving signal to the electromechanical conversion element wherein the driving device provides the driving signal to the electromechanical conversion element the driving signal generating the progressive vibrational wave satisfying a value b value 3 in the drive surface where a vibration amplitude generated in the drive surface of the vibrating element is defined as the a value and the deformation amount in a pressurization direction of the sliding surface of the relative motion member pressure contacting the drive surface of the vibrating element is defined as the b value.

The driving device may provide to the electromechanical conversion element the driving signal for generating the progressive vibrational wave satisfying a value b value 3 at the drive surface where the vibration amplitude caused at the drive surface of the vibrating element is defined as the a value a deformation amount of the sliding surface of the relative motion member pressurized and brought into contact with the drive surface of the vibrating element in a pressurization direction is defined as the b value.

The driving device provides to the electromechanical conversion element the driving signal for generating the progressive vibrational wave satisfying 0.000003 a value in the drive surface.

The driving device provides to the electromechanical conversion element the driving signal for generating the progressive vibrational wave satisfying 0.04 a value b value in the drive surface.

A durable thin film may be applied to the drive surface of the elastic body or the sliding surface of the relative motion member.

The thin film may have polyamide imide as a main component and has a Young s modulus of 4 GPa or higher and 10 Gp or less and a film thickness of 50 m or less.

According to the third aspect of the present invention a vibrational wave motor is provided comprising a vibrating element generating a progressive vibrational wave in a drive surface by excitation of an electromechanical conversion element a relative motion member having a sliding surface pressure contacting the drive surface of the vibrating element and being driven by the progressive vibrational wave wherein 0.009 b 0.03 is held when a deformation amount in a pressurization direction of the sliding surface of the relative motion member which pressure contacts the drive surface of the vibrating element is defined as b and a wavelength of the progressive wave generated at the drive surface of the vibrating element is defined as .

A durable thin film may be applied on the drive surface of the vibrating element or the sliding surface of the relative motion member.

The durable thin film may have polyamide imide as a main component and a Young s modulus of 4 GPa or higher and a film thickness of 50 m or less.

If N may be a pressurization force with which the vibrating element and the relative motion member are pressure contacted and D is a sliding diameter of the relative motion member then N D p has a range of 0.2 N mm p 0.9 N mm .

According to the fifth aspect of the present invention a lens barrel is provided in which the vibrational wave motor described above is provided.

According to the sixth aspect of the present invention a camera is provided in which the vibrational wave motor described above is provided.

It should be noted that the above mentioned constitution may be modified as appropriate and at least a part of the constitution may be substituted by another constituent.

According to the present invention it is possible to provide a vibrational wave motor a lens barrel and a camera which can realize a suitable drive performance and can be driven quietly.

Below an embodiment of a vibrational wave motor according to the present invention is described in detail referring to the attached drawings.

The camera is provided with a camera body having an image pickup device and a lens barrel having a lens . The lens barrel is an interchangeable lens that can be attached to and detached from the camera body . It should be noted that in the present embodiment an example in which the lens barrel is an interchangeable lens is shown but this is not a limitation and for example the lens barrel may be a lens barrel integrated with the camera body.

The lens barrel is provided with a lens a cam tube gears a vibrational wave motor and so on. In the present embodiment a driving force obtained from the vibrational wave motor is transferred to the cam tube via the gears . The lens is held in the cam tube via a lens frame and is moved substantially in parallel with the optical axis direction direction of the arrow L shown in by a driving force of the vibrational wave motor .

In a subject image is imaged on an image pickup surface of the image pickup device by a lens unit including the lens not shown which is provided within the lens barrel . By the image pickup device the imaged subject image is converted into an electrical signal and the signal is A D converted to produce image data.

In the present embodiment a side of the vibrating element is fixed and a relative motion member moving element is driven.

The vibrating element is composed of an electromechanical conversion element hereinafter called a piezoelectric body such as a piezoelectric element or electrostrictive element converting electric energy into mechanical energy as described later and an elastic body joined to the piezoelectric body . Progressive waves are generated in the vibrating element in the present embodiment one example in which 4 wave progressive waves are used is described.

An elastic body consists of a metal material having a high resonance sharpness and its shape is annular.

A groove is formed on an opposite surface to that joined to the piezoelectric body and a tip surface of a protruding part location in which there is no groove serves as a drive surface to be pressure contacted with the moving element .

The reason why the groove is formed is that the neutral plane of a progressive wave should be as close to the side of the piezoelectric body as possible thereby to amplify the amplitude of the progressive wave on the drive surface . A portion in which the groove is not formed is called a base portion in the present embodiment. The piezoelectric body is in contact with a surface of the base portion opposed to a side of the groove .

The drive surface of the elastic body is subjected to a lubricative surface treatment for the purpose of securing abrasion resistance at the time of high speed driving. The material uses polyamide imide as a main component to which PTFE is added and as its material property the Young s modulus is about 4 10 GPa preferably no more than 8 GPa. In addition the thickness is set to 5 m to 50 m.

The piezoelectric body is generally composed of a material of lead zirconate titanate known as PZT but in recent years is sometimes composed of potassium sodium niobate potassium niobate sodium niobate barium titanate bismuth sodium titanate bismuth potassium titanate and so on which are lead free materials in view of environmental concern.

Electrodes not shown are disposed on a surface of the piezoelectric body and are separated into two phases A phase B phase along a circumferential direction. In each phase polarization is made alternately for each half of the wavelength and the electrodes are disposed so that a wavelength space is open between the A phase and B phase.

The moving element consists of a light metal such as aluminum and the surface of the sliding surface undergoes an alumite treatment for improving the abrasion resistance.

An output axis is coupled with the moving element via a rubber member so as to rotate integrally with the moving element . The rubber member between the output axis and the moving element is required to have a function of coupling the moving element with the output axis by the adherence of the rubber and a function of vibrational absorption so that vibrations from the moving element are not transferred to the output axis for which butyl rubber or the like is suitable.

A pressurizing member is provided between a gear member fixed on the output axis and a bearing reception member . The gear member is inserted in a D cut of the axis to be fitted in the cut and is fixed by a stopper such as an E clip and made to be integral with the output axis in the rotational direction and the axial direction. The bearing reception member is inserted in the inner diameter side of the bearing and the bearing is structured to be inserted in the inner diameter side of a fixture member .

By such a structure the moving element is pressure contacted with a drive surface of the moving element .

In a vibrational piece a progressive wave is generated and its amplitude is set as the a value p p and the wavelength of the wave is mm . The magnitude of elliptic motion caused in the crest of a progressive wave in the pressurization direction and the magnitude of the same in the circumferential direction are substantially 1 1 and therefore the magnitude of the a value is approximated in the following formula. no load rotational velocity rpm 60 2 2 Herein 

It should be noted that D is defined as the median between the outer diameter and the inner diameter because the sliding surface has a width.

On the other hand the moving element is pressure contacted with the drive surface of the vibrational element so that the sliding surface is deformed along the progressive wave. Its deformation amount is set as the b value. The magnitude of the b value is approximated by the below mentioned formula. 1 384 12 Herein 

The a value b value and were thought to be non related so far but as a result of an experiment it has been found that there is a suitable range.

As the drive frequency of the driving signal is changed to vary the rotational velocity the drive efficiency gradually increases but starts to reduce at a certain value. It is thought that the reason is that there is conversion loss from the vibration energy of the vibrating element to the rotational motion energy of the moving element when the amplitude is small but the conversion loss becomes reduced when the amplitude becomes larger however the amplitude becomes too large at a certain vibration amplitude value or higher to cause a loss in the vibration itself. It is thought that a threshold value therefor is determined by the proportion of the amplitude to the wavelength that is a value .

The state in which a loss is caused in the vibration itself is a state in which the vibration is unstable and so in this unstable range the vibrational wave motor is hard to control.

According to the present measurement the drive efficiency is reduced when a value is greater than 0.00025. Therefore a relation of a value 0.00025 is suitable.

It is noted that the drive efficiency is calculated by drive efficiency rotational velocity torque input power.

In addition as the drive frequency of the drive signal is changed to vary the rotational velocity an abnormal noise starts to occur over a certain number of revolutions. It is thought that the reason is that when the amplitude is small the drive surface of the vibrating element is in close contact with the sliding surface of the moving element but the holding by the pressure becomes ineffective as the amplitude becomes larger and the rotational velocity is increased and the sliding surface of the moving element starts to float to cause a gap with respect to the drive surface of the vibrating element .

The threshold value is supposedly determined by the proportion of the amplitude to the deformation amount of the sliding surface of the moving element that is a value b value . A state in which the abnormal noise occurs corresponds to a state in which because the rotational velocity is unstable it becomes difficult to control the vibrational wave motor in this unstable range.

According to the present measurement a relation of a value b value 3.0 is suitable. In addition in order to realize stable rotation a relation of 0.04 a value b value is suitable.

It should be noted that definitions of a B value and an H value correspond to the width and height of the sliding portion of the moving element as shown in .

In addition as shown in in the case where a sliding material made of a polymeric substance is adhered to the sliding surface the sliding material has a Young s modulus much lower than metals and for this reason the definition applies to parts with the exception of the part of the sliding material

An oscillating section generates a driving signal of a desired frequency according to an instruction of the control section .

A phase shift section divides the driving signal generated by the oscillating section into two driving signals different in phase.

Amplification sections boost the two driving signals divided by the phase shift section to their respectively desired voltages.

The driving signals from the amplification sections are transferred to the vibrational wave motor and a progressive wave is generated at the vibrating element by application of the driving signals and the moving element is driven.

A rotation detecting section is constituted of an optical encoder a magnetic encoder or the like and detects a position and a velocity for a driven entity driven by the driving of the moving element and transfers the detected value as an electrical signal to the control section . The control section controls driving of the vibrational wave motor based on a driving instruction from a CPU within the lens barrel or in a main body of the camera .

The control section receives the detection signal from the rotation detecting section and based on its value obtains the positional information and velocity information to control the frequency of the oscillating section and voltages of the amplification sections in such a manner that positioning in a target location is realized.

With respect to the driving in a forward direction and the driving in a reverse direction in the case of driving in the driving forward direction the phase difference between the two driving signals frequency voltage signals in the phase shift section may be set to a positive value for example 90 degrees whereas in the case of driving in the reverse direction the phase difference between the two driving signals frequency voltage signals in the phase shift section may be set to a negative value for example 90 degrees.

In the case of the vibrational wave motor it is common that velocity change and control are carried out at a drive frequency and the velocity is increased as the frequency is reduced and the velocity is reduced as the frequency is increased.

According to the present embodiment the driving device of the vibrational wave motor is operated as follows.

First D the diameter mm see of the sliding surface of the moving element and the wavelength mm of the vibrating element are input to the control section .

For the method first a driving signal is generated from the oscillating section . The signal is divided into two driving signals that are different in phase by 90 degrees by the phase section and are amplified to desired voltages by the amplification section .

The driving signal is applied to the piezoelectric body of the vibrational wave motor to generate a progressive wave at the drive surface of the vibrating element .

A moving element pressure contacted with the drive surface is frictionally driven by the elliptic motion.

An optical encoder is disposed at a driven body driven by the driving of the moving element and from it an electrical pulse is generated and transferred to the control section and the velocity can be obtained.

The drive frequency for holding a relation of a value 0.00025 is obtained from the amplitude a value of a progressive wave calculated from 1 the velocity value 2 the drive frequency at the time 3 the inputted D value and from 4 the inputted value of .

Its frequency is set to a lower limit frequency A. Up to here are the settings within a factory before shipment.

As the actual operation of driving and control a drive instruction is issued from the control section and the drive signal is generated from the oscillating section . The signal is divided into two driving signals different in phase by 90 degrees by the phase shift section and amplified to desired voltages by the amplification sections .

The driving signals are applied to the piezoelectric body of the vibrational wave motor and the piezoelectric body is excited and this excitation leads to generation of fourth order bending vibration in the elastic body .

The piezoelectric body is divided into an A phase and a B phase and the driving signals are applied to the A phase and the B phase respectively. The fourth order bending vibration generated from the A phase and the fourth order bending vibration generated from the B phase are shifted from each other in positional phase by wavelength and in addition the A phase driving signal and the B phase driving signal have a 90 degree phase shift and so the two bending vibration components are combined to form a 4 wave progressive wave.

Elliptic motion is caused at the wave crest of the progressive wave. Therefore the moving element pressure contacting the drive surface is frictionally driven by this elliptic motion. An optical encoder is disposed in a driven body driven by the driving of the moving element and therefrom an electrical pulse is generated and transferred to the control section . The control section can obtain the current position and the current velocity on the basis of the signal. The control section performs control by changing the frequency to match the target velocity and the actual velocity but the frequency is kept from going below the lower limit frequency A.

By executing such a control method a suitable drive efficiency is always achieved to enable silent driving.

In the present embodiment a drive surface of the elastic body is subjected to a lubricant surface treatment.

Its material has polyamide as a main component and is a substance to which PTFE is added and its physical properties are a Young s modulus of 4 GPa or higher and a thickness of 50 m or less.

If the lubricant material for the surface has a Young s modulus less than this and a thickness greater than this inroads deformation arises at the location of the drive surface contacting the sliding surface of the moving element resulting in complicated frictional driving and there may be a relation between the vibration amplitude and the driving efficiency that is different from that the inventor has found. In the case where the lubricant surface treatment for the drive surface has a Young s modulus of 4 GPa or higher and a thickness of 50 m or less the relation between the vibration amplitude and the driving efficiency the inventor has found is realized and therefore the effects of the present invention are achieved.

It is noted that an upper limit of the Young s modulus is 10 GPa or less in respect of manufacture. In addition a lower limit of a film thickness is preferably 5 m or larger because the film becomes easy to peal as the film thickness is smaller.

For example in a conventional drive surface of the moving element forming a thin lubricant film having a large Young s modulus and made of a metal material or metal plating combined with a sliding surface of the moving element made of a metal material or metal plating frictional wear becomes intensive as the drive velocity is high because of frictional driving of metal materials with each other so that the a value cannot be large the vibration amplitude cannot be larger .

For this reason the driving cannot reach the control region defined in the present embodiment and there is no need for the numerical values as in the present embodiment. However if a thin lubricant film having a large Young s modulus is formed on the drive surface or the sliding surface then frictional wear does not occur even if the vibration amplitude is set higher to increase the drive velocity. For this reason the control method of the present embodiment is effective.

However even in the conventional combination of the drive surface of the vibrating element being of a metal material or metal plating and the sliding surface of the moving element being of a metal material or metal plating the method of the present embodiment is effective and its effects are exerted as long as frictional wear does not arise at the time of high velocity driving.

Next the second embodiment is described. The vibration amplitude is controlled based on the deformation amount in a pressurized state of the moving element .

In the present embodiment a vibrational wave motor control device is operated as follows. First the setting within a factory before shipment is explained.

At first D mm the diameter of the sliding surface of the moving element mm the wavelength of the moving element and the b value mm the deformation amount of the moving element in a pressurized state are calculated and inputted to the control section .

Next preliminary driving is carried out. For a method therefor a driving signal is generated from the oscillating section and the signal is divided into two driving signals different in phase by 90 degrees by the phase shift section and are amplified to the desired voltages by the amplification sections . The driving signals are applied to the piezoelectric body of the vibrational wave motor to cause the drive surface of the vibrating element to generate a progressive wave. The moving element which pressure contacts the drive surface is frictionally driven by this elliptic motion. An optical encoder is disposed at the driven body driven by the driving of the moving element from which an electrical pulse is generated and transferred to the control section making it possible to obtain the velocity.

Likewise the frequency at which a relation of a value b value 3.0 is held is obtained from the a value of the amplitude of the progressive wave calculated from 1 the velocity value 2 the drive frequency at that time and 3 the inputted D value and from 4 the inputted b value. This frequency is set to be the lower limit frequency B. It is noted that 0.04 a value b value for achieving stable rotation. The aforementioned are settings within the factory before shipment.

As the actual operation of driving and control a drive instruction is issued from the control section a driving signal is generated from the oscillating section and the signal is divided into two driving signals different in phase by 90 degrees by the phase shift section and amplified to the desired voltages by the amplification sections . The driving signals are applied to the piezoelectric body of the vibrational wave motor and the piezoelectric body is excited and this excitation leads to generation of fourth order bending vibration in the elastic body . The piezoelectric body is separated into A phase and B phase and the driving signals are applied to the A phase and B phase respectively. The fourth order bending vibration generated from the A phase and the fourth bending vibration generated from the B phase are shifted from each other in positional phase by wavelength and the A phase driving signal and the B phase driving signal are shifted from each other in phase by 90 degrees and so the two bending vibration components are combined to form a 4 wave progressive wave.

Elliptic motion is caused at the wave crest of the progressive wave. Therefore the moving element which pressure contacts the drive surface is frictionally driven by this elliptic motion. An optical encoder is disposed at the drive body driven by the driving of the moving element from which an electrical pulse is generated and transferred to the control section . The control section can obtain the current position and the current velocity based on this signal. The control section performs control by changing the frequency to match the target velocity and the actual velocity but the frequency is prevented from going below the lower limit frequency B.

In the first embodiment the control is made to hold the relation of a value 0.00025 and in the second embodiment the control is made to hold the relation of a value b value 3.0 but a method in which both of the relations are held may also be adopted.

A vibrating element is composed of an electromechanical conversion element hereinafter called a piezoelectric body whose examples include a piezoelectric element an electrostrictive element and so on for converting electrical energy to mechanical energy and an elastic body joined to the piezoelectric body . A progressive wave is generated in the vibrating element and in the present embodiment the progressive wave is explained for a 9 wave progressive wave as an example.

The elastic body consists of a metal material having a high resonant sharpness and its shape is annular. A groove is formed on an surface opposite to that joined to the piezoelectric body and a tip surface of a protruding part location in which there is no groove serves as a drive surface to be pressure contacted with the moving element .

The reason why the groove is formed is that the neutral plane of a progressive wave should be as close to the side of the piezoelectric body as possible thereby to amplify the amplitude of the progressive wave on the drive surface

The piezoelectric body is divided into two phases A phase B phase along a circumferential direction and in each phase elements whose polarization alternates for each half of the wavelength are arranged with a space of wavelength being formed between the A phase and the B phase.

Under the piezoelectric body there are disposed an non woven fabric not shown a pressurizing plate and a pressurizing member . The non woven fabric is of felt for example and disposed under the piezoelectric body so that vibration of the vibrating element is not transferred to the pressurizing plate and the pressurizing section. The pressurizing plate is arranged to receive the pressure of the pressurizing member .

In the present embodiment a disc spring is used for the pressurizing member but instead of the disc spring a coil spring or a wave spring may be used.

The moving element consists of a light metal such as aluminum and the surface of the sliding surface is provided with a sliding material for improving abrasion resistance.

On the moving element a rubber like vibration absorbing member is disposed in order to absorb vibration in the longitudinal direction of the moving element and above it an output transfer section is disposed.

The output transfer section restricts the pressurization direction and the radial direction by a bearing provided at the securing member thereby restricting the pressurization direction and the radial direction of the moving element .

The output transfer section has a projection portion and therefrom is fitted with a fork interfit with a cam ring so that the cam ring is rotated with rotation of the output transfer section .

On the cam ring a key groove is formed obliquely with respect to the cam ring and a securing pin provided at an AF ring is fitted in the key groove so that rotational drive of the cam sing causes the AF ring to be driven in a direct advance direction in an optional axis direction and to be able to stop in a desired position.

The bracing ring is attached to the securing member by a screw and by attaching this it is possible to constitute a single motor unit from the output transfer section to the moving element vibrating element and the spring.

As the drive frequency of the driving signal is changed to vary the rotational velocity the driving efficiency is increased gradually but it starts to drop at a certain value. It is thought that this is because there is a conversion loss from the vibration energy of the vibrating element to the rotational motion energy of the moving element when the amplitude is small and the conversion loss is reduced when the amplitude becomes larger but a loss will occur in the vibration itself since the amplitude becomes too large at or above a certain vibration amplitude value. The threshold value for this is thought to be determined by the proportion that is a value of the amplitude to the wavelength.

In the state where the loss occurs in the vibration itself the vibration is unstable and so in this unstable range the vibrational wave motor is in a state that is hard to control.

According to the present measurements the relation of a value 0.00025 is suitable. In addition a relation of 0.000003 a value is suitable in order to get stable rotation.

In addition the driving efficiency is calculated from driving efficiency rotational velocity torque input power.

Furthermore when trying to change the drive frequency of the driving signal and vary the rotational velocity an abnormal noise starts to occur at a certain number of revolutions or higher. It is thought that this is because the drive surface of the vibrating element and the sliding surface of the moving element are closely attached to each other by pressurization when the amplitude is small but as the amplitude becomes large and the rotational velocity is increased holding by the pressurization becomes ineffective and the sliding surface of the moving element begins to float and to create a gap between the surface and the drive surface of the vibrating element .

The threshold value for this is supposedly determined by the proportion that is a value b value of the amplitude to the deformation amount of the sliding surface of the moving element . In a state where an abnormal noise is generated the rotational velocity becomes unstable and so in this unstable domain the vibrational wave motor is in a hard to control state.

According to the present measurements the relation of a value b value 3.0 is suitable. In addition a relation of 0.04 a value b value is suitable in order to achieve stable rotation.

The driving method and control method in the present embodiment are the same as the first or second embodiment and so their explanations are omitted.

For aforementioned reasons as shown in Table 1 of the first embodiment and in Table 2 of the third embodiment both in the first embodiment and in the third embodiment a relation of a value 0.00025 is suitable regardless of a shape and wave number and wavelength of the progressive wave. A relation of 0.000003 a value is suitable in order to achieve stable rotation. A relation of a value b value 3.0 is suitable. In addition for the purpose of realizing stable rotation a relation of 0.04 a value b value is suitable.

As described above it is thought that controlling the vibrational wave motor in view of these relations leads to realization of advantages on many progressive wave type vibrational wave motors.

Next the fourth embodiment of the present invention is described. In the fourth embodiment the explanation is made using of the first embodiment.

In the fourth embodiment consideration was given to the suitable range of the amount b of deformation. As a result it was found that there is a proper amount b of deformation in the moving element but this range of the amount b of deformation is different depending upon the kind of vibrational wave motor . However as a result of repeated consideration it has been found that there is a proper range without regard to the size or the like of the vibrational wave motor in the value b that is a obtained by dividing the amount b of deformation by the wavelength generated in the vibrational wave motor .

Hereinafter an explanation is given for the experimental results in which the proper range of b is obtained for a compact vibrational wave motor and an annular vibrational wave motor .

It is noted that the preferable range in the compact vibrational wave motor is 4 mm to 15 mm for . The sliding diameter shown in for which the moving element slides is 5 mm to 40 mm. The height H of the sliding portion of the moving element is 0.7 mm H 1.2 mm . The loading p is 0.2 N mm to 0.9 N mm .

Table 3 shows the results obtained by researching abnormal noise characteristics and driving characteristics while varying the deformation amount b in a compact vibrational wave motor having a sliding diameter D 10.6 mm a wave number 4 and a wavelength of 8.33 mm.

In the driving characteristics O driving efficiency is good X extreme reduction of driving efficiency.

No. 1 a refers to the case of b 0.009664. There is no occurrence of abnormal noise and the driving property is also not problematic.

No. 1 b refers to the case where the height H of the sliding portion of the moving element is reduced and the pressurizing force p is raised relative to the case of No. 1 a and b results in 0.030849. In this instance the deformation amount b of the moving element becomes large and the contact state with the vibrating element is tight so that no abnormal noise is generated. Besides when the amplitude is low low velocity driving influence is received from a reverse velocity part of the progressive wave and the driving efficiency is greatly reduced which is manifested as an undesirable effect.

No. 1 c refers to the case where the height H of the sliding portion of the moving element is large relative to the case of No. 1 a and b is 0.006474. In this instance the deformation amount b of the vibrating element is small so that it is not possible to absorb the vibration force of the vibrating element in the case that the amplitude of the vibrating element is large thereby generating abnormal noise.

No. 1 d refers to the case where a pressurization force p is small relative to the case of No. 1 a and b is 0.007959. As the pressurizing force p is small holding by the pressurization is ineffective and b appears to become small generating abnormal noise.

No. 1 e refers to the case where the pressure p is greater relative to the case of No. 1 a and b is 0.011370. In this instance abnormal noise and driving properties are also not problematic.

Table 4 shows the study results of the abnormal noise property and driving property with respect to different values of b in the case of using a circular ring type vibrational wave motor having a sliding diameter D 57.3 mm a wave number 9 and a wavelength of 20.00 mm.

In the driving property O good driving efficiency acceptable level of reduction in driving efficiency X extreme reduction in driving efficiency.

No. 2 a refers to the case of b 0.010681. There is no abnormal noise and the driving property is not problematic.

No. 2 b refers to the case where a height H of the sliding portion of the moving element is reduced relative to the case of No. 1 a and b is 0.025319. In this instance the deformation amount b of the moving element becomes large and the contact state with the moving element is tight so that the abnormal noise is not generated. However when the amplitude is low low velocity driving it is influenced by a reverse velocity part of the progressive wave and a reduction of the driving efficiency starts to emerge as an undesirable effect.

No. 2 c refers to the case where the height H of the sliding portion of the moving element is increased relative to the case of No. 2 a and b is 0.007502. In this instance the deformation amount b of the vibrating element is reduced and it is not possible to absorb the vibrating force of the vibrating element so that the abnormal noise is generated when the amplitude of the vibrating element is large.

No. 2 d refers to the case where the pressurizing force p is reduced relative to the case of No. 2 a and b is 0.006923. If the pressurizing force p is small holding by the pressurization is not effective and b appears to be reduced so that the abnormal noise is generated.

No. 2 e refers to the case where the height H of the sliding portion of the moving element is further reduced relative to the case of No. 2 a and b is 0.032871. In this instance the deformation amount b of the moving element is further increased and the contact state with the moving element is tight so that no abnormal noise is generated. Besides when the amplitude is low low velocity driving it is influenced by a reverse velocity part of the progressive wave and the driving efficiency is extremely reduced which is expressed as undesirable effects. As described above a similar trend to the experimental results shown in the above Table 3 is also found in Table 4.

A summation of the above described Experimental Results 1 and Experimental Results 2 is shown in Table 5.

As shown in Table 5 the range of b satisfactory for both abnormal noise occurrence and a driving property is 0.009 b 0.03.

As described above the drive surface of the elastic body is subjected to a lubricant surface treatment. Its material is a substance which has polyamide imide as a main component to which PTFE is added and having a Young s modulus of 4 GPa or higher and a thickness of 50 m or less as physical properties.

If the Young s modulus of the lubricant material of the surface is smaller or if the thickness is greater it is possible that inroads deformation will occur at the location of the drive surface in contact with the sliding surface of the moving element causing complicated frictional driving. For this reason in 0.009 b 0.03 it is thought that a Young s modulus of 4 GPa or higher and a thickness of 50 m or less are preferable in order to surely realize good abnormal noise characteristics and driving characteristics.

It is noted that in a combination where the driving surface of the vibrating element is a metal material or metal plating and the sliding surface of the moving element is a metal material or metal plating as the deformation amount b of the moving element is increased frictional wear becomes intense when the driving velocity is high because of frictional driving between the metal materials. For this reason the b value usually cannot be set larger relative to . In such a case b is also small and it may be unnecessary to consider problems in the driving characteristics occurring when increasing b.

However in recent years it has become possible to reduce frictional wear when increasing the vibration amplitude to increase the driving velocity by forming a thin lubricant film with a high Young s modulus on the drive surface or the sliding surface . In this case the value of b can be increased.

In such a case where the frictional wear is small the effects of the present embodiment appear more remarkably.

However even in a combination where the drive surface of the vibrating element is a metal material or metal plating and the sliding surface of the moving element is a metal material or metal plating according to the prior art when frictional wear at the time of high velocity driving does not occur the effects of the present embodiment are sufficiently apparent.

As described above according to the present embodiment a range of 0.009 b 0.03 is suitable even if the wave number and wavelength of the progressive wave are different and by setting the material properties and the shape or the pressurization condition of the moving element to this range it is possible to realize a progressive wave type vibrational wave motor that is silent and excellent in driving characteristics regardless of the wave number and wavelength of the progressive wave.

It should be noted that the above described embodiment is disclosed concerning the case of a vibrational wave motor using a progressive vibrational wave and the wave number being 4 or 9 however similar effects can be expected if control is executed with a similar method for a similar constitution even for other wave numbers of 5 6 7 8 10 or more.

