---

title: Mobile wireless communications device for validating access to an application based upon a validation request and related methods
abstract: A mobile wireless communications device may include a wireless transceiver and a controller coupled to the wireless transceiver. The controller may be configured to determine if an email address is associated with the mobile wireless communications device. The controller may further be configured to wirelessly send a validation request to a validation server based upon the email address, and wait for a validation email to be wirelessly received from the validation server based upon the validation request if the email address is associated with the wireless communications device, and if the validation email is wirelessly received, then validate access an application based upon the validation email.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08893296&OS=08893296&RS=08893296
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08893296
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20110107
---
The present application is based upon previously filed copending U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 324 686 filed Apr. 15 2010 the entire subject matter of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure relates to the field of wireless communications and more particularly to mobile wireless communications devices with validation and related methods.

Many applications for example financial applications and email applications may include user authentication via a username and password to access the application. A user desiring access to an application requiring user authentication may find it increasingly difficult to manage a respective password for a corresponding username. For example the user may forget a username and or password.

Where a user forgets her password for an application the password may be recovered by performing a password recovery process. The password recovery process is often lengthy and includes multiple steps to be performed by the user.

For example at an online store a user may recover a password by entering the user s email address into the online store s web page. The corresponding password or a temporary password to be reset is emailed to the user from the online store.

In a messaging service application for a wireless device when a user attempts to recover a corresponding contact list for example by selecting the menu command Restore Contacts the application attempts to match an email address associated with or on the wireless device with an email address identifier associated with a contact list stored on a messaging service server. If there is a match the application restores the corresponding contact list on the wireless device.

The Internet Explorer Password Recovery and Unmask Tool application is an application that recovers forgotten passwords. More particularly the Internet Explorer Password Recovery and Windows Application password unmask tool application recovers Internet Explorer saved passwords for example passwords for lost or forgotten email accounts newspaper groups online shopping web sites magazine subscriptions web forms billing addresses search engine accounts or any password protected Windows application.

The present description is made with reference to the accompanying drawings in which various embodiments are shown. However many different embodiments may be used and thus the description should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

In accordance with one example aspect a mobile wireless communications device may include a housing and a wireless transceiver carried by the housing. The mobile wireless communications device may also include a controller carried by the housing and coupled to the wireless transceiver. The controller also referred to herein as a processor may be configured to determine if an email address is associated with the mobile wireless communications device. The controller may also be configured to wirelessly send a validation request to a validation server based upon the email address. The controller may also be configured to wait for a validation email to be wirelessly received from the validation server based upon the validation request if the email address is associated with the wireless communications device. If the validation email is wirelessly received then the controller may validate an application based upon the validation email. Accordingly the time and effort for recovering a password in an application having a username and or password may be reduced.

The controller may be configured to discontinue waiting for the validation email if the validation email is not wirelessly received within a predetermined time. The controller may be configured to discontinue waiting for receipt for validation email if the validation email is not wirelessly received prior to a user input override.

The validation email may include a unique login key. The controller may be configured to extract the unique login key from the validation email. The controller may be configured to validate the application based upon wirelessly sending the unique login key back to the validation server.

The mobile wireless communications device may also include a display coupled to the controller. The controller may be configured to wirelessly receive a notification message from the validation server that the validation email has been wirelessly sent and to display the notification message on the display. The controller may be configured to display a password reset input screen based upon the validation email.

A method aspect may be directed to a method of validating an application on a mobile wireless communications device. The method may include determining if an email address is associated with the mobile wireless communications device for example. The method may further include wirelessly sending a validation request to a validation server based upon the email address. The method may further include waiting for a validation email to be wirelessly received from the validation server based upon the validation request if the email address is associated with the wireless communications device and if the validation email is wirelessly received then validate the application based upon the validation email for example.

Referring initially to a mobile wireless communications device illustratively includes a housing a wireless transceiver carried by the housing and a display carried by the housing.

The mobile wireless communications device also illustratively includes an audio transducer carried by the housing . The audio transducer may be a microphone for example. The audio transducer may also be a speaker. In some example embodiments there may be more than one audio transducer for example a microphone and speaker may be used and carried by the housing .

The mobile wireless communications device includes one or more input devices . The input devices illustratively include push buttons for cooperating with a controller . In some example embodiments the input device may be an alphanumeric keypad or other input device for cooperating with the controller for example. Still further an input device may be coupled to the display to accept a touching input therefrom and cooperate with the controller for example.

The controller is also carried by the housing and cooperates with the wireless transceiver to perform at least one mobile wireless communications function. For example the wireless transceiver may be a cellular transceiver or a WiFi transceiver for example and may cooperate with the controller to communicate data and or voice communications. Other types of wireless transceivers and mobile wireless communications functions will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

The controller is configured to determine if an email address is associated with the mobile wireless communications device . The controller is also configured to wirelessly send a validation request to a validation server based upon the email address. The controller is further configured to wait for a validation email to be wirelessly received from the validation server based upon the validation request if the email address is associated with the wireless communications device and if the validation email is wirelessly received then validate an application based upon the validation email. This usefully reduces the time and effort for password recovery for example.

Referring now additionally to the flow chart of beginning at Block operation of the controller with regard to the validating the application is described by way of screen shots of the display . The controller is configured to prompt a user for a username that is an email address and password associated with an application account on the display Block . The user provides the email address and password via the input device . If the user is able to provide the corresponding email address and password associated with the application account access to the application account is granted not shown .

If the user s attempt to access the application account has failed for example by providing an incorrect password to the corresponding email account the controller informs the user of an invalid login Block and prompts the user to provide the email address and password again Block . The controller allows the user a threshold number of failed attempts to enter the email address and password for example ten. Of course another threshold number may be selected.

Alternatively if the user recognizes that the correct password has been forgotten the user may provide input by way of a display link for example indicative of a forgotten password. Based upon the input the controller prompts the user to enter the email address to recover the corresponding password Block . Of course the user may follow the forgotten password link after a number of unsuccessful attempts. In this case the controller determines if the email address previously entered by the user is valid Block and the controller does not display the prompt to enter the email address to recover the corresponding password.

After the threshold number of attempts to enter the email address and password has been exceeded or after the user entered the email account after indicating a forgotten password the controller may prompt the user with a security question for example the user s favorite food Block . Other security questions may be asked as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. The controller usefully allows the user another threshold number of failed attempts to enter the correct answer to the security question for example ten Block . Of course another threshold number may be selected.

If the user does not answer the security question correctly the controller usefully locks the mobile wireless communications device for a period of time for example two hours Block . The controller may display a link for the user to contact support. Other time periods may be selected. Additionally the controller may display a warning to the user of an impending lock Block when prompting the user for a final attempt Block . If the final attempt is incorrect Block the controller locks the mobile wireless communications device Block .

Referring now additionally to the flowchart of if the user provides a correct response to the security question Block the controller determines if the email account entered by the user is associated with the mobile wireless communications device Block . In other words the controller attempts to match the user entered email address with an email address setup in the mobile wireless device. For example if the user entered myemail mydomain.com and the mobile wireless communications device is setup to receive email from myemail mydomain.com then the email address is associated with the mobile wireless communications device.

If the email address is associated with the mobile wireless communications device the controller cooperates with the wireless transceiver and wirelessly sends a validation request to a validation server based upon the email address. The validation server receives the validation request and generates and sends a validation email based upon the validation request. The validation server may send a notification message to the controller that the validation email has been sent. The controller wirelessly receives the notification message and displays a corresponding message to the user Block . The controller waits for the validation email to be wirelessly received from the validation server .

If the controller cannot associate the email address with the mobile wireless communications device Block the controller displays a message informing the user that a validation email including a login key has been sent to the email address entered by the user and that the user must follow the link in the validation email when it is received at the email account Block . The controller may not be able to associate the email if for example a user has an email address setup to forward to another email address that is associated with the mobile wireless communications device . In other words to access the un associated email account a user may have to access the email account from another device or through an email client.

While waiting for the validation email for the associated email address Block to be wirelessly received the controller starts a countdown timer for receipt of the validation email. The countdown timer is set for a predetermined time for example two minutes as illustrated but as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art can be set for any amount of time. The controller is configured to discontinue waiting for the validation email if the validation email is not received within the predetermined time Block . In other words the controller may discontinue waiting for the validation email if it is not received prior to the expiration of the countdown timer Block .

Alternatively the controller is configured to discontinue waiting for the validation email if the validation email is not received prior to a user input override. For example if the user does not wish to wait for the validation email to arrive the user may press a reset later button to discontinue waiting for the validation email. If the controller discontinues waiting based upon the user input override the controller displays a dialog informing the user to follow the password reset instructions in the validation email when it wirelessly arrives at the mobile wireless communications device Block .

The controller continues to display that it is waiting for the validation email for a minimum time for example ten seconds even if the validation email has been received. This usefully allows the user to follow the status of the sent validation request and validation email. Of course other times may be selected.

If the validation email has wirelessly arrived at the mobile wireless communications device prior to either the expiration of the predetermined time Block and the user input override has not been input the controller extracts a unique login key from the validation email. More particularly the controller determines the sender email address of each incoming email to first determine if a received email is the validation email. If the sender of a received email matches a predetermined sender email address for example a sender email address associated with the validation server the email is considered the validation email. The controller parses the body of the validation email to extract a hyperlink including the unique login key.

The unique login key is a unique token associated with the given validation password reset request to verify the validation request. The controller uses the extracted unique login key to access via another application programming interface for example the validation server and acknowledges receipt of the validation email to validate the application.

The controller displays a password reset input screen based upon the validation email Block . A user inputs a new password and confirms the password at the password reset input screen. The controller may optionally wirelessly send the new password to the validation server to notify it of the password change for future validation for example before ending at Block . Accordingly the time and number of steps for a user to recover a password and reset the password may be reduced.

It is noted that are flow diagrams corresponding to example embodiments. Some of the steps illustrated in the flow diagrams may be performed in an order other than that which is described. Also as will be appreciated not all of the steps described in the flow diagrams are required to be performed additional steps may be added and some of the illustrated steps may be substituted with other steps.

The embodiments described herein generally relate to a mobile wireless communication device hereafter referred to as a mobile wireless communications device which can be configured according to an IT policy. It should be noted that the term IT policy in general refers to a collection of IT policy rules in which the IT policy rules can be defined as being either grouped or non grouped and global or per user. The terms grouped non grouped global and per user are defined further below. Examples of applicable communication devices include pagers cellular phones cellular smart phones wireless organizers personal digital assistants computers laptops handheld wireless communication devices wirelessly enabled notebook computers and the like.

The mobile wireless communications device is a two way communication device with advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile wireless communications devices or computer systems through a network of transceiver stations. The mobile wireless communications device may also have the capability to allow voice communication. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile wireless communications device it may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a cellular telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance or a data communication device with or without telephony capabilities . To aid the reader in understanding the structure of the mobile wireless communications device and how it communicates with other devices and host systems reference will now be made to .

Referring first to shown therein is a block diagram of another example embodiment of a mobile wireless communications device . The mobile wireless communications device includes a number of components such as a main processor that controls the overall operation of the mobile wireless communications device . Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through a communication subsystem . The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this example embodiment of the mobile wireless communications device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Although the wireless network associated with mobile wireless communications device is a GSM GPRS wireless network in one example implementation other wireless networks may also be associated with the mobile wireless communications device in variant implementations. The different types of wireless networks that may be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks as mentioned above and future third generation 3G networks like EDGE and UMTS. Some other examples of data centric networks include WiFi 802.11 Mobitex and DataTAC network communication systems. Examples of other voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems.

The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone short range communications and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of the mobile wireless communications device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

The mobile wireless communications device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile wireless communications device . To identify a subscriber the mobile wireless communications device requires a SIM RUIM card i.e. Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM card or RUIM is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the mobile wireless communications device and to personalize the mobile wireless communications device among other things. Without the SIM card the mobile wireless communications device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . By inserting the SIM card RUIM into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM card RUIM includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM card RUIM is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM card RUIM can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using the SIM card RUIM is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile wireless communications device. The SIM card RUIM may store additional subscriber information for a mobile wireless communications device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively user identification information can also be programmed into the flash memory .

The mobile wireless communications device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the mobile wireless communications device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to the mobile wireless communications device .

The mobile wireless communications device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile wireless communications device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the mobile wireless communications device to send and receive electronic messages. Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the flash memory of the mobile wireless communications device or some other suitable storage element in the mobile wireless communications device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages may be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the mobile wireless communications device communicates with.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the mobile wireless communications device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile wireless communications device subscriber s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the mobile wireless communications device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the mobile wireless communications device subscriber s office computer system.

The mobile wireless communications device also includes a connect module and an IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile wireless communications device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the mobile wireless communications device is authorized to interface with. Examples of a wireless infrastructure and an enterprise system are given in which are described in more detail below.

The connect module includes a set of APIs that can be integrated with the mobile wireless communications device to allow the mobile wireless communications device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the mobile wireless communications device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the mobile wireless communications device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

The IT policy module receives IT policy data that encodes the IT policy. The IT policy module then ensures that the IT policy data is authenticated by the mobile wireless communications device . The IT policy data can then be stored in the flash memory in its native form. After the IT policy data is stored a global notification can be sent by the IT policy module to all of the applications residing on the mobile wireless communications device . Applications for which the IT policy may be applicable then respond by reading the IT policy data to look for IT policy rules that are applicable.

The IT policy module can include a parser not shown which can be used by the applications to read the IT policy rules. In some cases another module or application can provide the parser. Grouped IT policy rules described in more detail below are retrieved as byte streams which are then sent recursively in a sense into the parser to determine the values of each IT policy rule defined within the grouped IT policy rule. In at least some embodiments the IT policy module can determine which applications are affected by the IT policy data and send a notification to only those applications. In either of these cases for applications that aren t running at the time of the notification the applications can call the parser or the IT policy module when they are executed to determine if there are any relevant IT policy rules in the newly received IT policy data.

All applications that support rules in the IT Policy are coded to know the type of data to expect. For example the value that is set for the WEP User Name IT policy rule is known to be a string therefore the value in the IT policy data that corresponds to this rule is interpreted as a string. As another example the setting for the Set Maximum Password Attempts IT policy rule is known to be an integer and therefore the value in the IT policy data that corresponds to this rule is interpreted as such.

After the IT policy rules have been applied to the applicable applications or configuration files the IT policy module sends an acknowledgement back to the host system to indicate that the IT policy data was received and successfully applied.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the mobile wireless communications device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the mobile wireless communications device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the mobile wireless communications device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile wireless communications device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile wireless communications device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile wireless communications device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile wireless communications device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile wireless communications device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the mobile wireless communications device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the mobile wireless communications device .

The short range communications subsystem provides for communication between the mobile wireless communications device and different systems or devices without the use of the wireless network . For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary subsystem may include devices such as a touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard is preferably an alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. However other types of keyboards may also be used. A composed item may be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of the mobile wireless communications device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the mobile wireless communications device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Referring now to an example block diagram of the communication subsystem component is shown. The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter as well as associated components such as one or more embedded or internal antenna elements and Local Oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a Digital Signal Processor DSP . The particular design of the communication subsystem is dependent upon the communication network with which the mobile wireless communications device is intended to operate. Thus it should be understood that the design illustrated in serves only as one example.

Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The wireless link between the mobile wireless communications device and the wireless network can contain one or more different channels typically different RF channels and associated protocols used between the mobile wireless communications device and the wireless network . An RF channel is a limited resource that must be conserved typically due to limits in overall bandwidth and limited battery power of the mobile wireless communications device .

When the mobile wireless communications device is fully operational the transmitter is typically keyed or turned on only when it is transmitting to the wireless network and is otherwise turned off to conserve resources. Similarly the receiver is periodically turned off to conserve power until it is needed to receive signals or information if at all during designated time periods.

Referring now to a block diagram of an example implementation of a node of the wireless network is shown. In practice the wireless network comprises one or more nodes . In conjunction with the connect module the mobile wireless communications device can communicate with the node within the wireless network . In the example implementation of the node is configured in accordance with General Packet Radio Service GPRS and Global Systems for Mobile GSM technologies. The node includes a base station controller BSC with an associated tower station a Packet Control Unit PCU added for GPRS support in GSM a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Home Location Register HLR a Visitor Location Registry VLR a Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP . This list of components is not meant to be an exhaustive list of the components of every node within a GSM GPRS network but rather a list of components that are commonly used in communications through the network .

In a GSM network the MSC is coupled to the BSC and to a landline network such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN to satisfy circuit switched requirements. The connection through the PCU the SGSN and the GGSN to a public or private network Internet also referred to herein generally as a shared network infrastructure represents the data path for GPRS capable mobile wireless communications devices. In a GSM network extended with GPRS capabilities the BSC also contains the Packet Control Unit PCU that connects to the SGSN to control segmentation radio channel allocation and to satisfy packet switched requirements. To track the location of the mobile wireless communications device and availability for both circuit switched and packet switched management the HLR is shared between the MSC and the SGSN . Access to the VLR is controlled by the MSC .

The station is a fixed transceiver station and together with the BSC form fixed transceiver equipment. The fixed transceiver equipment provides wireless network coverage for a particular coverage area commonly referred to as a cell . The fixed transceiver equipment transmits communication signals to and receives communication signals from mobile wireless communications devices within its cell via the station . The fixed transceiver equipment normally performs such functions as modulation and possibly encoding and or encryption of signals to be transmitted to the mobile wireless communications device in accordance with particular usually predetermined communication protocols and parameters under control of its controller. The fixed transceiver equipment similarly demodulates and possibly decodes and decrypts if necessary any communication signals received from the mobile wireless communications device within its cell. Communication protocols and parameters may vary between different nodes. For example one node may employ a different modulation scheme and operate at different frequencies than other nodes.

For all mobile wireless communications devices registered with a specific network permanent configuration data such as a user profile is stored in the HLR . The HLR also contains location information for each registered mobile wireless communications device and can be queried to determine the current location of a mobile wireless communications device. The MSC is responsible for a group of location areas and stores the data of the mobile wireless communications devices currently in its area of responsibility in the VLR . Further the VLR also contains information on mobile wireless communications devices that are visiting other networks. The information in the VLR includes part of the permanent mobile wireless communications device data transmitted from the HLR to the VLR for faster access. By moving additional information from a remote HLR node to the VLR the amount of traffic between these nodes can be reduced so that voice and data services can be provided with faster response times and at the same time requiring less use of computing resources.

The SGSN and the GGSN are elements added for GPRS support namely packet switched data support within GSM. The SGSN and the MSC have similar responsibilities within the wireless network by keeping track of the location of each mobile wireless communications device . The SGSN also performs security functions and access control for data traffic on the wireless network . The GGSN provides internetworking connections with external packet switched networks and connects to one or more SGSN s via an Internet Protocol IP backbone network operated within the network . During normal operations a given mobile wireless communications device must perform a GPRS Attach to acquire an IP address and to access data services. This requirement is not present in circuit switched voice channels as Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN addresses are used for routing incoming and outgoing calls. Currently all GPRS capable networks use private dynamically assigned IP addresses thus requiring the DHCP server connected to the GGSN . There are many mechanisms for dynamic IP assignment including using a combination of a Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server and a DHCP server. Once the GPRS Attach is complete a logical connection is established from a mobile wireless communications device through the PCU and the SGSN to an Access Point Node APN within the GGSN . The APN represents a logical end of an IP tunnel that can either access direct Internet compatible services or private network connections. The APN also represents a security mechanism for the network insofar as each mobile wireless communications device must be assigned to one or more APNs and mobile wireless communications devices cannot exchange data without first performing a GPRS Attach to an APN that it has been authorized to use. The APN may be considered to be similar to an Internet domain name such as myconnection.wireless.com .

Once the GPRS Attach operation is complete a tunnel is created and all traffic is exchanged within standard IP packets using any protocol that can be supported in IP packets. This includes tunneling methods such as IP over IP as in the case with some IPSecurity IPsec connections used with Virtual Private Networks VPN . These tunnels are also referred to as Packet Data Protocol PDP Contexts and there are a limited number of these available in the network . To maximize use of the PDP Contexts the network will run an idle timer for each PDP Context to determine if there is a lack of activity. When a mobile wireless communications device is not using its PDP Context the PDP Context can be de allocated and the IP address returned to the IP address pool managed by the DHCP server .

Referring now to shown therein is a block diagram illustrating components of an example configuration of a host system that the mobile wireless communications device can communicate with in conjunction with the connect module . The host system will typically be a corporate enterprise or other local area network LAN but may also be a home office computer or some other private system for example in variant implementations. In this example shown in the host system is depicted as a LAN of an organization to which a user of the mobile wireless communications device belongs. Typically a plurality of mobile wireless communications devices can communicate wirelessly with the host system through one or more nodes of the wireless network .

The host system comprises a number of network components connected to each other by a network . For instance a user s desktop computer with an accompanying cradle for the user s mobile wireless communications device is situated on a LAN connection. The cradle for the mobile wireless communications device can be coupled to the computer by a serial or a Universal Serial Bus USB connection for example. Other user computers are also situated on the network and each may or may not be equipped with an accompanying cradle . The cradle facilitates the loading of information e.g. PIM data private symmetric encryption keys to facilitate secure communications from the user computer to the mobile wireless communications device and may be particularly useful for bulk information updates often performed in initializing the mobile wireless communications device for use. The information downloaded to the mobile wireless communications device may include certificates used in the exchange of messages.

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the user computers will typically also be connected to other peripheral devices such as printers etc. which are not explicitly shown in . Furthermore only a subset of network components of the host system are shown in for ease of exposition and it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the host system will comprise additional components that are not explicitly shown in for this example configuration. More generally the host system may represent a smaller part of a larger network not shown of the organization and may comprise different components and or be arranged in different topologies than that shown in the example embodiment of .

To facilitate the operation of the mobile wireless communications device and the wireless communication of messages and message related data between the mobile wireless communications device and components of the host system a number of wireless communication support components can be provided. In some implementations the wireless communication support components can include a message management server a mobile data server a contact server and a device manager module . The device manager module includes an IT Policy editor and an IT user property editor as well as other software components for allowing an IT administrator to configure the mobile wireless communications devices . In an alternative embodiment there may be one editor that provides the functionality of both the IT policy editor and the IT user property editor . The support components also include a data store and an IT policy server . The IT policy server includes a processor a network interface and a memory unit . The processor controls the operation of the IT policy server and executes functions related to the standardized IT policy as described below. The network interface allows the IT policy server to communicate with the various components of the host system and the mobile wireless communications devices . The memory unit can store functions used in implementing the IT policy as well as related data. Those skilled in the art know how to implement these various components. Other components may also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art. Further in some implementations the data store can be part of any one of the servers.

In this example embodiment the mobile wireless communications device communicates with the host system through node of the wireless network and a shared network infrastructure such as a service provider network or the public Internet. Access to the host system may be provided through one or more routers not shown and computing devices of the host system may operate from behind a firewall or proxy server . The proxy server provides a secure node and a wireless internet gateway for the host system . The proxy server intelligently routes data to the correct destination server within the host system .

In some implementations the host system can include a wireless VPN router not shown to facilitate data exchange between the host system and the mobile wireless communications device . The wireless VPN router allows a VPN connection to be established directly through a specific wireless network to the mobile wireless communications device . The wireless VPN router can be used with the Internet Protocol IP Version 6 IPV6 and IP based wireless networks. This protocol can provide enough IP addresses so that each mobile wireless communications device has a dedicated IP address making it possible to push information to a mobile wireless communications device at any time. An advantage of using a wireless VPN router is that it can be an off the shelf VPN component and does not require a separate wireless gateway and separate wireless infrastructure. A VPN connection can preferably be a Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection for delivering the messages directly to the mobile wireless communications device in this alternative implementation.

Messages intended for a user of the mobile wireless communications device are initially received by a message server of the host system . Such messages may originate from any number of sources. For instance a message may have been sent by a sender from the computer within the host system from a different mobile wireless communications device not shown connected to the wireless network or a different wireless network or from a different computing device or other device capable of sending messages via the shared network infrastructure possibly through an application service provider ASP or Internet service provider ISP for example.

The message server typically acts as the primary interface for the exchange of messages particularly e mail messages within the organization and over the shared network infrastructure . Each user in the organization that has been set up to send and receive messages is typically associated with a user account managed by the message server . Some example implementations of the message server include a Microsoft Exchange server a Lotus Domino server a Novell Groupwise server or another suitable mail server installed in a corporate environment. In some implementations the host system may comprise multiple message servers . The message server may also be adapted to provide additional functions beyond message management including the management of data associated with calendars and task lists for example.

When messages are received by the message server they are typically stored in a data store associated with the message server . In at least some embodiments the data store may be a separate hardware unit such as data store that the message server communicates with. Messages can be subsequently retrieved and delivered to users by accessing the message server . For instance an e mail client application operating on a user s computer may request the e mail messages associated with that user s account stored on the data store associated with the message server . These messages are then retrieved from the data store and stored locally on the computer . The data store associated with the message server can store copies of each message that is locally stored on the mobile wireless communications device . Alternatively the data store associated with the message server can store all of the messages for the user of the mobile wireless communications device and only a smaller number of messages can be stored on the mobile wireless communications device to conserve memory. For instance the most recent messages i.e. those received in the past two to three months for example can be stored on the mobile wireless communications device .

When operating the mobile wireless communications device the user may wish to have e mail messages retrieved for delivery to the mobile wireless communications device . The message application operating on the mobile wireless communications device may also request messages associated with the user s account from the message server . The message application may be configured either by the user or by an administrator possibly in accordance with an organization s information technology IT policy to make this request at the direction of the user at some pre defined time interval or upon the occurrence of some pre defined event. In some implementations the mobile wireless communications device is assigned its own e mail address and messages addressed specifically to the mobile wireless communications device are automatically redirected to the mobile wireless communications device as they are received by the message server .

The message management server can be used to specifically provide support for the management of messages such as e mail messages that are to be handled by mobile wireless communications devices. Generally while messages are still stored on the message server the message management server can be used to control when if and how messages are sent to the mobile wireless communications device . The message management server also facilitates the handling of messages composed on the mobile wireless communications device which are sent to the message server for subsequent delivery.

For example the message management server may monitor the user s mailbox e.g. the message store associated with the user s account on the message server for new e mail messages and apply user definable filters to new messages to determine if and how the messages are relayed to the user s mobile wireless communications device . The message management server may also compress and encrypt new messages e.g. using an encryption technique such as Data Encryption Standard DES Triple DES or Advanced Encryption Standard AES and push them to the mobile wireless communications device via the shared network infrastructure and the wireless network . The message management server may also receive messages composed on the mobile wireless communications device e.g. encrypted using Triple DES decrypt and decompress the composed messages re format the composed messages if desired so that they will appear to have originated from the user s computer and re route the composed messages to the message server for delivery.

Certain properties or restrictions associated with messages that are to be sent from and or received by the mobile wireless communications device can be defined e.g. by an administrator in accordance with IT policy and enforced by the message management server . These may include whether the mobile wireless communications device may receive encrypted and or signed messages minimum encryption key sizes whether outgoing messages must be encrypted and or signed and whether copies of all secure messages sent from the mobile wireless communications device are to be sent to a pre defined copy address for example.

The message management server may also be adapted to provide other control functions such as only pushing certain message information or pre defined portions e.g. blocks of a message stored on the message server to the mobile wireless communications device . For example in some cases when a message is initially retrieved by the mobile wireless communications device from the message server the message management server may push only the first part of a message to the mobile wireless communications device with the part being of a pre defined size e.g. 2 KB . The user can then request that more of the message be delivered in similar sized blocks by the message management server to the mobile wireless communications device possibly up to a maximum pre defined message size. Accordingly the message management server facilitates better control over the type of data and the amount of data that is communicated to the mobile wireless communications device and can help to minimize potential waste of bandwidth or other resources.

The mobile data server encompasses any other server that stores information that is relevant to the corporation. The mobile data server may include but is not limited to databases online data document repositories customer relationship management CRM systems or enterprise resource planning ERP applications.

The contact server can provide information for a list of contacts for the user in a similar fashion as the address book on the mobile wireless communications device . Accordingly for a given contact the contact server can include the name phone number work address and e mail address of the contact among other information. The contact server can also provide a global address list that contains the contact information for all of the contacts associated with the host system .

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the message management server the mobile data server the contact server the device manager module the data store and the IT policy server do not need to be implemented on separate physical servers within the host system . For example some or all of the functions associated with the message management server may be integrated with the message server or some other server in the host system . Alternatively the host system may comprise multiple message management servers particularly in variant implementations where a large number of mobile wireless communications devices need to be supported.

Alternatively in some embodiments the IT policy server can provide the IT policy editor the IT user property editor and the data store . In some cases the IT policy server can also provide the device manager module . The processor of the IT policy server can be used to perform the various steps of a method for providing IT policy data that is customizable on a per user basis as explained further below and in conjunction with . The processor can execute the editors and . In some cases the functionality of the editors and can be provided by a single editor. In some cases the memory unit can provide the data store .

The device manager module provides an IT administrator with a graphical user interface with which the IT administrator interacts to configure various settings for the mobile wireless communications devices . As mentioned the IT administrator can use IT policy rules to define behaviors of certain applications on the mobile wireless communications device that are permitted such as phone web browser or Instant Messenger use. The IT policy rules can also be used to set specific values for configuration settings that an organization requires on the mobile wireless communications devices such as auto signature text WLAN VoIP VPN configuration security requirements e.g. encryption algorithms password rules etc. specifying themes or applications that are allowed to run on the mobile wireless communications device and the like.

Many modifications and other embodiments will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included.

