---

title: Product exchange system
abstract: An exchange system for facilitating the purchase of products is described. The system is coupled, in one embodiment, to a communications link. Potential product purchasers and sellers may access the exchange system via the network, and submit offers and/or pricing requests to such system. In response to the requests, the system processor retrieves the stored data from the respective databases, and causes such data to be transmitted to the local site for display. The exchange systems also executes certain functions in response to commands and data transmitted from buyer sites, seller sites and institution sites.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08332324&OS=08332324&RS=08332324
owner: Mirim Network Transfer Ltd. L.L.C.
number: 08332324
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110202
---
The present application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 556 913 filed on Nov. 6 2006 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 550 455 filed on Oct. 30 1995 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 512 365 filed on Aug. 8 1995 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The present invention generally relates to product purchase systems and more particularly to a product system accessible via a communications network which facilitates the purchase of products.

When purchasing a product a purchaser must first determine which product including brand name model color and other features best meets his needs. Once the purchaser has an established interest in purchasing a particular product the purchaser typically visits in person or by telephone a few stores that sell the product to determine the best price. Once the best price is determined all things being equal the purchaser usually buys from the store selling this particular product at the best price.

It would be desirable and advantageous to provide a product exchange system which enables a potential product purchaser to easily and quickly review specific product configurations of interest in combination with final pricing information for those same products in a particular geographic region. It also would be desirable and advantageous to enable a potential product purchaser to ascertain the best price for a particular product and to lock in to a specific offer via the system without having to actually visit or make direct contact with particular sellers.

An object of the present invention is to simplify and reduce the time required for both the buyer and seller in completing a product sales transaction.

Another object of the present invention is to enable potential purchasers to quickly and easily ascertain offers for the sale of products in a particular geographic region of interest.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a product exchange system which enables a potential product purchaser to easily and quickly review all specific product configurations of interest in combination with final pricing information for products in a particular geographic region.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide an exchange system which enables a potential product purchaser to ascertain the best price for a particular product and to lock in to a specific offer via the system without having to actually visit or make direct contact with the seller.

These and other objects and advantages are achieved by a product exchange system which includes in one embodiment a file server having a plurality of databases storing specific information related to products offered for sale. The exchange system further includes a processor coupled to the databases and programmed to perform certain tasks in response to price inquiries special requests offers to sell offers to buy and acceptance of such offers.

Specifically the exchange system is coupled to a communications link such as the telephone lines or the Internet. A potential product purchaser may access from a remote site the exchange system via the network and submit requests to such system. In response to some requests the system processor retrieves stored data from the respective databases and causes such data to be transmitted to the remote site for display. The exchange system also executes certain functions in response to commands and data transmitted from seller sites and institution sites e.g. banks other lenders or agents for buyers or sellers. The system enables a potential purchaser to for example browse the offers in a particular geographic region for the particular product of interest and to lock in to a particular offer to sell.

The system described above enables a potential product purchaser to easily and quickly review all final pricing information for a variety of products and configurations in a particular geographic region. In addition such system enables if desired the buyer to lock in a specific offer via the system.

One embodiment of an exchange system is illustrated in as being coupled to network via a multi line communications control and router . System includes for example a file server having a processor and memory storage. Such file servers are commercially available such as the IBM RS 600 or HP 9000. Databases A B and are illustrated as forming a part of system . Databases A B and would for example be part of the memory storage of the file server.

Administration database A is utilized for storing data related to tasks executed by system . Configurations database B stores data related to specific product configurations which may be accessed via network from remote sites. Database includes a price inquiries database A an offer to buy and special request database B an accepted offers database C and an offers to sell prices database D. A plurality of personal computers such as personal computers A and B are coupled to system via a local area network LAN to enable access to system without requiring access to network .

Buyer sites and seller sites are shown as being coupled to branch B of network . Particularly potential buyers through personal computers and modems A and B may access exchange system via network . Similarly sellers through personal computers and modems A and B may access exchange system via network . Of course the functions performed by system for such buyers and sellers are different as explained hereinafter in more detail.

Institution sites are shown as being coupled to branch A of network . Such institutions may include lending institutions such as banks. Institutions may access exchange system through modem coupled to a file server having a product buying service accounts database and via personal computers A and B. Account information for product purchases made by buyers at buyer sites via system may be stored in database .

It should be understood of course that the architecture illustrated in may vary depending upon the network utilized. Also many additional buyer sites seller sites and institution sites may be coupled to system . Further a geographic area such as a country e.g. the United States of America could be divided into regions with separate systems serving such regions.

With respect to buyer sites at such sites a potential buyer may via personal computer and modem A B enter commands to cause system to execute routines to enable such buyer to review pricing make offers special requests and accept a seller offer. At seller sites sellers may via personal computer and modem A B enter commands to cause system to execute routines to enable such seller to by a mass upload to system or by exception maintain offers by base model and options in databases of system . In addition sellers may respond to specific buyer acceptances and special requests communicated to seller sites from buyer sites via system . The manner in which certain functions are executed by system is described hereinafter in more detail.

At institution sites institutions may provide pricing service for customers via system . Such institutions may also maintain in file server information regarding individual accounts and offers.

Product configuration services may provide data to system related to particular product brands and models. In this manner system may compliment existing services which provide on line product configuration information.

Referring specifically to in configurations database B information regarding new products is stored. Such information includes for each designated product make brand style and other descriptive. Such information typically provides a detailed description of each particular product. Note that although information regarding a particular product may be stored in configurations database B a particular seller may not have made a specific offer for that specific configuration. Therefore data stored in configurations database B may not necessarily match information stored in offers to sell database D.

With respect to offers to sell database D information such as an identification of the seller making an offer the seller region and pricing information by brand model style and descriptions is stored. Such information identifies by sellers having specific geographic selling locations offers to sell certain products.

In price inquiries database A information related to potential buyer inquiries is stored. Such information includes an identification of each buyer by identification number who makes an inquiry to offers to sell database D the buyer s geographic region and the product brand model style and options which were the subject of the buyer inquiry.

Buyer offers and special request database B is utilized by system for storing information related to offers made by buyers and special requests made by potential buyers via system to a seller. For example a buyer may request an updated price offer based on a unique selection of options. For each such buyer offer and special request buyer and seller identifications geographic region and make model style and options information is stored in database B.

System stores in accepted offers database C and for each offer accepted via system an identification of the buyer and seller and an offer number which is assigned to the accepted offer by system . Such information may be used for example for billing purposes.

With respect to administration database E information related to seller accounts buyer accounts and geographic locations for buyers and sellers is stored. Also institution accounts transactions logs system billing and accounts receivable information is stored in such database E.

As pointed out above the specific architecture and structure of databases B and A E may of course vary and is not limited to the specific structure illustrated in . In addition although databases B and A E are shown as being separate such databases could be consolidated or distributed in many other configurations. Further information in addition to the specific data described above could be stored in and form a part of such databases.

Referring now particularly to upon initialization of system functions performed by system include maintaining seller buyer and institution accounts maintaining new product configuration masters and maintaining price offers by sellers by make model style and options . Such maintenance functions are described hereinafter in more detail and generally require maintaining current information in the various databases of system .

Exchange system also validates price offers . For example once a seller at a seller site communicates a specific offer to sell a product system prior to loading such offer in database D displays the information which is the subject of the offer to the seller. If the information is correct the seller enters a command on computer A for example and system then loads the validated information into database D.

System also is configured to determine upon receiving a buyer command a low market price for a selected specific configuration within a designated geographic region. Particularly a potential buyer at a buyer site may want to place a specific offer to buy or identify a specific desired product configuration and a particular geographic region in which such buyer would be willing to travel within to obtain a product. Such information is then loaded into computer A for example through a graphical user interface. Such information is then transmitted to system . Using such inputted information offers to sell database D is scanned to identify matches for the selected product configuration offered for sale in the selected geographic region. The selling prices are then compared for such matches and the lowest selling price is then caused to be displayed by system at computer A. Exchange system also enables upon receipt of a buyer command a buyer to review seller price offers for a variety of products.

If a buyer desires to make an offer or a special request of a seller such requests may be made to a seller through system . Exchange system also enables a buyer to review and update pricing inquiries and if a buyer accepts a seller offer via system system generates a buyer acceptance notification .

With respect to offers to buy and special requests exchange system communicates such offers and requests to the buyer designated seller and enables such seller to respond to the offer or request via system . If a seller response to a special request is acceptable the buyer may accept the seller s offer and system will generate acceptance notification . Exchange also generates for the seller a notification of offer acceptance . Of course if a seller accepts an offer to buy exchange generates a notification of the seller acceptance.

Administration tasks performed by system generate data to be stored in administration database . More specifically and as shown in system monitors account activity and data manages deposits and credits maintains account billings and collections and performs periodic backup and file storage operations . Data related to such activities is loaded in administration database A and may later be utilized for example to generate buyer and seller billing for access and use of system .

The menu displayed to a buyer for example is a graphical user interface which enables the buyer to select from various options such as shopping offers and account . Once the buyer has selected an option system responds to such selection. For example if the buyer selects shopping since this service is not executed by system system prompts the buyer to logoff system . On the other hand if the buyer selects offers then system executes the sequence of process steps associated with reviewing seller price offers . If the user selects account then system will cause account activity for the subject buyer to be displayed at the buyer s computer.

If the seller is a new seller to system then the seller is prompted to enter name address contact telephone and fax information . System then assigns the seller an identification number and an SMSA region . System also sets all account balances for the seller to zero and adds the seller account to administration database A. Once such an account is established the seller may update the seller account master information stored in administration database A.

If the seller is not a new seller then system will prompt the seller and request entry of new or updated data . A seller may update information in any and all fields for information stored by system with respect to such seller . Once such data has been entered then system updates the account master for the seller stored in administration database A. Once all such information has been entered and stored by system all the updated account information is caused by system to be displayed at personal computer A for example to enable the seller to review such information and to ensure its correctness .

Referring to process in more detail system first reads uploads the latest source file configurations from configurations database B. System also may read upload configurations from other sources such as third party configuration sources . Once such configurations are uploaded into active memory of system then the newly entered product configurations since the last batch update which may be stored in a buffer memory are compared with the existing configurations in configurations database B at step . If for any particular product configuration such configuration does not exist in configuration database B a new record is created for such new product configuration and the new record is added to the other records which will be stored in configurations database B. If the product configuration is already stored in configurations database B then operations proceed to block where all information is updated by copying all records in active memory of system to configurations data base B. Such updated information in configurations database B forms the new master records which may be accessed by both buyers and sellers as described above.

If a seller does not desire to update such offers by exception the seller is then prompted by system as to whether such seller would desire to update the pricing information for each configuration by a fixed amount or percentage . If a seller would like to perform such an update the seller may indicate the general dollar amount mark up or percentage over factory invoice at . Again such updated information is stored in the interim file and may subsequently be loaded into database D by system .

If the seller does not desire to perform any such updates or once such updates have been completed via step then system causes the display at seller site to indicate that the price offer database update has been completed .

Administration database A is then updated with new account balances for the seller performed functions . The seller could of course have a price offer report printed out at seller site . If the seller selects to have such information printed then the price offer report is printed out at the seller site from the updated records in offer to sell database D for that seller by make brand options and style.

Internally within system and for current records within offers to sell database D for each product configurations such records may be sorted by configuration to identify and store such information by lowest offer first. Such information may be stored in database D for all offers to sell in this manner.

The buyer may then enter and select a make model options and style of product which the buyer desires to purchase . The buyer then selects whether to make an offer to buy or a request . If the buyer desires to make an offer to buy then the buyer enters and validates the specific product configuration related to the offer . Once such configuration information is entered the buyer then enters the price and selected geographic regions . Exchange system then receives this information and sends an offers message to sellers within the selected geographic region and updates offers to buy special request database B.

If the buyers desires to make a request then the buyer enters and validates the product configuration data related to the request enters special options and selects a specific seller from the account master in database A of system . Exchange system then receives the special requests transmits the request to the specified seller and updates the special requests database B with a copy of the subject request. The message may be stored for example at the personal computer A at the selected seller site and the message may be stored in an E mail location specified by the seller.

The buyer may add change or delete a particular product configuration as indicated at a step . Specifically if a buyer selects or desires to delete a particular configuration the make model option and style would be deleted from the buyer s price inquiries which are stored in the price inquiries database A into the local memory of personal computer A.

Once a buyer has selected a particular description which the buyer desires to have pricing information on system first determines whether such a description is a valid description . Such a determination is made for example by comparing the selected description with the descriptions stored in descriptions database B. If the description is not valid then operations return to step in which a buyer may select a different description.

If the description is valid operations proceed to step in which for the particular descriptions selected the prices are obtained by system from the offer to sell database D and such information is added to the particular description information currently then being displayed at personal computer A and are added to the price inquiry database A. If upon the buyer s review there is at least one offer which is acceptable system validates acceptance of the offer by rechecking the data and ensuring that the offer to sell from offer to sell database D is still current . If such information is validated then the accepted offer information is stored in accepted offers database C and for the particular seller and buyer the account balances are updated and stored in a buyer s accounts transaction log in system . If no offers are acceptable processing proceeds directly to step .

Once the seller receives information regarding such an acceptance as set forth in step then the seller may make contact with the potential buyer via E mail telephone or even through system . If the transaction is concluded between the buyer and the seller then accepted offers database C is updated by the seller at seller site and system at step . System then executes administrative tasks with database A as indicated at and the seller account buyer account transaction log is updated in administration database A.

The above described system enables a potential product purchaser to easily and quickly review all models and other information regarding specific product configurations of interest in combination with final pricing information for products in a particular geographic region. System also enables a potential product purchaser to ascertain the best price for a particular product and to lock in to a specific seller offer via the system.

From the preceding description of an embodiment of the present invention it is evident that the objects of the invention are attained. Although the invention has been described and illustrated in detail it is to be clearly understood that the same is intended by way of illustration and example only and is not to be taken by way of limitation. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the invention are to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims.

