---

title: Zero-voltage-switching scheme for high-frequency converter
abstract: Method for operating an ac/ac converter circuit for a high-frequency-link converter. The ac/ac converter circuit converts an ac input voltage to an ac output voltage. When the ac input voltage is zero, each of a pair of switches for both first and second arms are caused to be on. Current flows through the first arm along a first direction and through the second arm along a second, opposite direction. Next, when the ac input voltage is zero, a selected switch in the second arm is caused to be turned off. The position of the switches can be maintained as the ac input voltage transitions to a dc level, reaches the dc level, approaches zero, and again reaches zero. When the ac input voltage again reaches zero, the selected switch for the second arm is caused to be turned on.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08559193&OS=08559193&RS=08559193
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08559193
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110122
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 297 425 filed Jan. 22 2010 under 35 U.S.C. 119.

This invention was made with government support under National Science Foundation Grant No. 0725887. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The need for energy security and energy surety is slowly driving worldwide end energy users towards renewable and alternative sources of energy. The impact of this movement appears to have a correlation with progressively reduced cost of the energy sources. A further need is to reduce the cost of the interfacing power electronics system PES which is relatively difficult since power electronics is already a relatively mature field.

As a nonlimiting example high efficiency low cost and high power density are important attributes of a multi phase converter i.e. converter with one or more phases fed with a dc source. Nonlimiting example applications include distributed generation DG systems with renewable and alternative energy sources e.g. photovoltaic arrays wind with front end rectifier or fuel cell stacks energy storage systems microgrid vehicle to grid applications electric hybrid electric fuel cell vehicles compact power conversion modules PCMs for naval space and aerospace applications and battery based uninterruptible power supplies UPSs . In such systems galvanic isolation is often required for safety concerns and voltage and current scalabilities.

In that regard an improvement in the art has resulted in a shift away from line frequency transformer based bulky inverters towards high frequency transformer based inverters which saves weight volume footprint space and labor cost. This first phase has resulted in about 20 kHz isolated inverters with efficiencies around 90 .

However it is being realized that to reduce the cost even further the inverter design should have a universal element to it i.e. a technology that is applicable not only to photovoltaic or fuel cell PV FC wind type sources but also suitable for other traditional inverter applications with comparable specifications. The power density of the inverters should operate at higher switching frequency without sacrificing efficiency and without adding significantly to the cost. Approaches to reduce filter size or eliminate them without compromising performance factors would provide additional benefits.

Among possible topologies a high frequency link HFL pulse width modulated PWM converter can eliminate the intermediate LC filter that is needed for a conventional high frequency HF fixed dc link converter approach. Further as compared to a resonant link inverter it yields lower switch stress better total harmonic distortion THD and simpler all device structure e.g. no passive components in power stages . Thus the PWM HFL converter approach is better suited from the viewpoints of cost efficiency and portability.

One HFL converter topology in the art is a cycloconverter type HFL CHFL converter which reduces conversion complexity by directly placing a cycloconverter to the secondary side of an HF transformer. Another topology is a rectifier type HFL RHFL converter. The RHFL possesses a structure similar to that of a conventional fixed dc link converter except for the absence of the de link filter. It can be thought of as a distributed version of the CHFL topology.

Cycloconverter type inverters eliminate intermediate dc link filters and thus reduce parts count. However operation of such a scheme involves rectifier diodes which experience reverse recovery losses if the inverter operates at high switching frequencies. Furthermore the output voltage and output current polarities need to be sensed as two different switching schemes are required for unity and non unity power factor loads. This is because for the latter case there are time durations during which the output voltage and output current have opposite signs. This leads to complex operational logic. Further the differences in the switching actions makes it apparent that additional switching for the non unity power factor case leads to additional switching losses for the ac ac converter which can limit efficient operation at much higher frequencies of inverter operation.

Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things a method for operating an ac ac converter circuit for a high frequency link converter having a high frequency link transformer coupled to a primary side converter and a secondary side converter. The HFL converter can be either a cycloconverter type CHFL or a rectifier type RHFL and can be either half bridge or full bridge and single phase or multiple phases. The secondary side converter comprises the ac ac converter circuit for converting an ac input voltage to an ac output voltage. The ac input voltage varies between zero and a positive negative dc voltage. A leg of the ac ac converter circuit comprises first and second arms and each arm comprises a pair of switches.

According to an example method during a time when the ac input voltage is zero each of the pair of switches for both the first and second arms are caused to be on wherein current flows through the first arm along a first direction and through the second arm along a second opposite direction. Next during a time when the ac input voltage is zero a selected switch in the second arm is caused to be turned off. The position of the switches can be maintained as the ac input voltage transitions to the positive or negative dc level reaches the positive or negative dc level approaches zero and again reaches zero. As the ac input voltage transitions to the positive or negative dc level a current direction through the second arm is reversed. When the ac input voltage reaches the positive or negative do level the ac input voltage is blocked from the second arm. During a time when the ac input voltage approaches zero until a time when the ac input voltage again reaches zero the output capacitance of the selected switch of the second arm discharges and current flows through the second arm in the original direction. When the ac input voltage again reaches zero the selected switch for the second arm is caused to be turned on.

Example embodiments of the present invention provide among other things a zero voltage switching ZVS scheme for an ac ac converter that mitigates enhanced ac ac converter losses at frequencies much higher than 20 kHz. During turn on and turn off of switches if the product of switch current and switch voltage is zero then the switch is said to undergo a soft switching or else it is hard switching. If the current approaches zero before the voltage the soft switching mechanism is called zero current switching ZCS . If the voltage goes to zero before the current the soft switching mechanism is called zero voltage switching ZVS .

Methods are provided according to example embodiments of the present invention for a high frequency link converter having a high frequency link transformer coupled to a primary side converter and a secondary side converter. The secondary side converter comprises an ac ac converter circuit for converting an ac input voltage varying between zero and a positive or negative dc voltage to an ac output voltage. This ac input voltage is bipolar and tristate. The ac ac converter circuit includes at least one leg where each leg includes first and second arms. Each arm includes at least one switch and preferably switches e.g. first and second switches for controlling current flow to the arms.

An example method for operating the ac ac converter circuit provides a sequence for controlling the switches for the first and or second arms. Note that the particular switches for the ac ac converter that provide the first and second switches and the first and second arms can vary depending on for example unity or non unity power factor load phase etc.

In an example method for operating the ac ac converter circuit during a time when the ac input voltage is zero the first and second switches for both the first and second arms are caused to be on. This can cause output current from the primary side converter to be shared equally between the first and second arms. Next and during a time when the ac input voltage is zero a selected switch of the second arm is caused to be turned off. Next the ac ac converter circuit is caused to receive the ac input voltage during a time when the ac input voltage transitions to a dc level which can be positive or negative depending on the particular method until a time during which the selected switch of the second arm blocks the ac input voltage. During this time a current direction through the second arm is reversed and an output capacitance of the first switch of the second arm is charged.

Next the ac ac converter circuit is caused to receive the ac input voltage until a time during which the primary side converter attains a zero state and the ac input voltage approaches zero voltage. During this part of the sequence prior to the primary side converter attaining a zero state current to the second arm is blocked such as by the selected switch of the second arm. The first and second switches of the first arm support the output current from the primary side converter.

The ac ac converter is then caused to receive the ac input voltage from a time during which the ac input voltage approaches zero until a time during which the ac input voltage is zero. During the time that the ac input approaches zero the output capacitance of the selected switch of the second arm discharges and current flows through the second arm in the original direction. The output capacitance can be clamped by an antiparallel diode. Next while the ac input voltage is zero the first switch of the second arm is turned on completing the half switching cycle.

This half switching cycle can be extended to provide a full switching sequence a switching sequence for unity power factor or non unity power factor a switching sequence for a half bridge or full bridge and or a switching sequence for multiple phases. As a nonlimiting example if the dc voltage in the above sequence is positive by then repeating the above half switching sequence for a negative dc voltage but turning off a selected switch on the first arm when the ac input voltage is zero a full switching sequence can be performed. As another example if the ac ac converter includes multiple legs each leg can be operated according to the inventive sequence. This can be used to provide a full bridge switching scheme and or a multiple phase switching scheme.

A converter is provided according to embodiments of the present invention. The example converter includes a primary side converter a high frequency link transformer coupled to the primary side converter and a secondary side ac ac converter circuit coupled to the high frequency link transformer. The ac ac converter circuit comprises at least one leg each leg having first and second arms and each arm having first and second switches. An output stage filter is coupled to the ac ac converter circuit for filtering an output voltage provided by the ac ac converter circuit. A control stage is provided for operating the secondary side ac ac converter circuit. The operation can be according to the sequence s described above or elsewhere herein.

Example schemes provide a convenient solution that is applicable for both unity and non unity power factor loads using only one switching strategy unlike conventional schemes. By limiting the need for diode operation except during transition reverse recovery losses can be mitigated and electromagnetic interference EMI can be reduced. Further unlike conventional schemes that include a diode rectifier stage followed by a full bridge converter on the secondary side example schemes according to the present invention enable bi directional flow. Hence the applicability of example methods and converters extends beyond PV and FC applications.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize additional features and broader aspects of the invention.

A control stage is provided for operating the primary side converter and the secondary side ac ac converter . The example control stage shown in provides a closed loop control based switching sequence generation scheme using a two stage approach. Particularly the control stage includes a controller which may be embodied by a configured circuit board chip etc. for generating control signals. The control signals are generated based on reference signals that provide the desired control objectives and real time feedback signals from both the primary side dc ac converter and the secondary side ac ac converter to ascertain the measure of the difference between desired and actual performance. The controller output is fed to a modulator block which may be embodied by a suitably configured circuit board chip or other suitable circuit to generate the switching signals for the switches in the inverter. Particularly the modulator in the example configuration shown in provides the switching signals to implement switching sequences for the converter switches.

For purposes of illustrating a control method according to an embodiment of the present invention shows a nonlimiting example CHFL topology for the converter including a primary side converter the HFL transformer a secondary side ac ac converter and an output filter . The primary side converter is embodied in a full bridge dc ac converter including a plurality of switches Q Q Q and Q for controlling the primary side converter. The dc ac converter produces an HF bipolar voltage Vor V across the transformer using in this example sinusoidal pulse width modulation. Bipolar voltage is used per switching cycle to ensure transformer flux balance. The primary side converter can be controlled using methods known to those of ordinary skill in the art. As nonlimiting examples the primary side converter can be controlled by the control stage according to the methods described in S. Deng H. Mao J. Mazumder I. Batarseh and K. Islam A new control scheme for high frequency link inverter design in IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference pp. 512 517 2003 and or the methods described in S. K. Mazumder R. Burra R. Huang M. Tahir K. Acharya G. Garcia S. Pro O. Rodrigues and E. Duheric A high efficiency universal grid connected fuel cell inverter for residential application IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics vol. 57 no. 10 pp. 3431 3447 2010 both of which are incorporated in their entirety by reference herein. The present invention is not intended to limited to a particular method for operating the primary side converter .

The secondary side ac ac converter which in the nonlimiting example shown in is a half bridge ac ac converter includes a leg having a first arm as shown upper arm and a second arm as shown lower arm . It should be understood that first and second are used for purposes of illustration and are not intended to require a particular order. For example it is contemplated that the lower arm could be referred to as a first arm and the upper arm could be referred to as a second arm. The first arm includes first and second switches S S in back to back mode with the terms first and second also used for purposes of explanation and not to require a particular order. Similarly the second arm includes first and second switches S S in back to back mode. Switches S S S and S each may but need not in all cases include external and or internal parallel capacitors and antiparallel diodes labeled D D D and D respectively. Gates for each of the switches S S S and S are coupled to the output of the control stage for controlling operation of the ac ac converter via gating signals. Nonlimiting example switches include MOSFET JFET with internal built in antiparallel diodes with or without parallel external capacitors across each switch and or IGBTs or BJTs with external antiparallel diodes with or without a parallel external capacitor across each switch.

The ac ac converter is supplied with an ac input voltage Vacross the transformer secondary. This input voltage is a bipolar voltage. For example the ac input to the ac ac converter can be bipolar and tristate e.g. 0 dc voltage levels . The width of each ac ac converter input pulse in a switching period can be varied based on sinusoidal modulation. The ac ac converter processes this ac input voltage and provides an ac output voltage Vat least in part by controlling the switches S S S and S. Feedback can be supplied to the control stage from the ac ac converter for assistance with control. According to embodiments of the present invention the switches S S S and S are controlled using a zero voltage switching ZVS scheme to reduce switching loss.

During Mode as shown in the transformer secondary voltage V is zero. All of the ac ac converter switches S S S S are caused to be on for example gating signals can be supplied to the switches to turn the switches on from an off state or to keep the switches on . As such the output current from the transformer secondary is shared equally between the two arms of the half bridge ac ac converter . Current sharing between the two arms results in a lower conduction loss. Note that equally can be understood to also refer to substantially equally.

Mode as shown in is a zero state interval during which V 0. Zero can be understood to mean zero or substantially zero. At the beginning of Mode the switch S in a selected switch as shown the first switch of the second arm is turned off under ZVS condition.

Generally the inverter generates sinusoidally modulated bipolar voltage at the output independent of the direction of current. Soft switching ensures that commutation of current from the lower half of the ac ac converter such as converter to its upper half and vice versa during transition happens with reduced loss in other words that the switches that are turning on do so with reduced or no switching loss and so do the switches that are turning off. The current direction influences the way the current flows in the sets of switches depending on the desired voltage polarity at the output of the inverter and the switch to be selected is based on this desired voltage polarity. Because the devices are connected in back to back mode the switch is selected for a particular set that blocks the voltage when in the off state. Desired inverter voltage polarity also is used to determine whether for a given transformer secondary output voltage i.e. bipolar and pulsating voltage whether the first set or bottom set e.g. first or second arms of the ac ac converter are selected.

During Mode the other switches S S S remain on. Half of the output current that was flowing through the first as shown lower arm now begins to transfer to the second as shown upper arm . Eventually the first and second switches S and S for the upper arm carry the output current.

Mode as shown in initiates when Vrises from zero voltage to the in this example positive dc level as shown in . During this time the switches S S and S remain on while switch S remains off. This mode ends with switch S blocking V shown in . As shown in the current direction along the second arm is reversed and the output capacitance of switch S can charge.

In Mode as shown in the first and second switches of the first arm switches S and S support the output current. During this time switches S and S remain on while switch S remains off. Because switch S blocks V switch S can remain on or it can be turned off under zero current condition.

Mode as shown in initiates when the primary side converter attains a zero state and as such Vapproaches zero voltage. Switches S remains off and S S and S are on S can be turned on if it was off during Mode . The output current is primarily supported by switches S and S while the output capacitance of switch S discharges and eventually is clamped by the antiparallel diode D of S. During this time current flows across the second arm along the original direction shown in .

Mode as shown in is similar to Mode and is a zero state interval. Switches S S and S remain on. This mode ends when switch S turns on under ZVS condition. Subsequently the output current again is shared between the two arms of the ac ac converter . At the end of this mode a half switching cycle is achieved.

These first six modes can be expanded to provide a full switching scheme for operating when the bipolar transformer secondary voltage is positive negative. This can done by generally repeating the first six modes set out above but turning off and then on a selected switch for the other arm. Accordingly Modes are set out by example below 

During Mode as shown in the transformer secondary voltage V is again zero. All of the ac ac converter switches S S S S are caused to be on.

Mode as shown in is a zero state interval during which V 0. At the beginning of Mode a selected switch of the upper arm the switch S in the second switch of the first upper arm is turned off under ZVS condition. The other switches S S S remain on. Half of the output current that was flowing through the upper arm now begins to transfer to the lower arm . Eventually the first and second switches S and S for the lower arm carry the output current.

Mode as shown in initiates when Vfalls from zero voltage to as shown negative dc level as shown in . During this time the switches S S and S remain on while switch S remains off. This mode ends with switch S blocking V. As shown in the current direction along the first arm is reversed and the output capacitance of switch S can charge.

In Mode as shown in the first and second switches of the second arm switches S and S support the output current. During this time switches S and S remain on while switch S remains off. Because switch S blocks V switch S can remain on or it can be turned off under zero current condition.

Mode as shown in initiates when the primary side converter attains a zero state and as such Vapproaches zero voltage. Switch S remains off and S S and S are on S can be turned on if it was off during Mode . The output current is primarily supported by switches S and S while the output capacitance of switch S discharges and eventually is clamped by the antiparallel diode D of S. During this time current flows across the first arm along the original direction shown in .

Mode as shown in is similar to Mode and is a zero state interval. Switches S S and S remain on. This mode ends when switch S turns on under ZVS condition. Subsequently the output current again is shared between the two arms of the ac ac converter . Modes can be repeated.

The switching scheme shown in can also be extended to a full bridge ac ac converter circuit topology according to another embodiment of the present invention. show example modes of operation for a full bridge ac ac converter . The full bridge converter includes two legs each having first and second arms arms for leg and arms for leg and switches S S S S for leg and S S S S for leg . As shown in for the first leg Modes above are generally followed except that the switch turned off and on during ZVS condition is switch S first switch of first upper arm . Similarly for the second leg Modes above are generally followed except that the switch turned off and on during ZVS condition is switch S first switch of second lower arm .

Further the inventive switching scheme shown in can be extended for higher numbers of phases. show an example topology including a primary side dc ac converter an HF transformer and a secondary side converter embodied in a three phase PWM cycloconverter . The cycloconverter includes three legs each providing a phase for ac ac conversion. shows a three phase CHFL topology with signal transformer secondary including three legs . Similarly shows an example three phase CHFL topology with star connected transformers at the secondary.

The present invention is not intended to be limited to the converter shown in the specific switching scheme shown in or the specific CHFL topologies shown herein. Many variations are possible under the scope of the invention as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. For example shows an example switching scheme for the secondary side converter when the modulation of the primary side dc ac converter is based on sine wave modulation. However the modulation for the primary side dc ac converter can be based on conventional sine wave or square wave modulation. Generally the converter generates a sine wave waveform after filter and thus the bipolar pulsating output of the inverter is sinewave modulated. This can be done either 1 by a primary side full bridge converter performing sinewave modulation and the secondary side ac ac converter only unfolds as in or 2 by a primary side converter performing square wave modulation and the secondary side ac ac converter modulating this signal to create sinewave modulation output. For sinewave modulation as in case 1 above the ac ac converter may not need to adjust the width of the pulses generated by the dc ac converter since the pulse already includes the sinusoidally coded information. For the square wave modulation case case 2 the ac ac converter should adjust the width of the pulses generated by the dc ac converter since the pulse does not encode any sinusoidal information. Even if the transformer secondary output is square wave bipolar the example switching sequence for loss mitigation holds though timing may be different as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

Also the ac input voltage need not be strictly 0 with varying width. If as another example the ac input varies between high frequency positive sinusoid 0 negative sinusoid where the modulation is captured e.g. by the amplitude variation of the sinusoids methods according to embodiments of the present invention can be performed. For some very high frequency applications as a nonlimiting example smoother sinewave voltages may be applied rather than pulsating voltages.

Further the modulation of the example ac ac converter switches is employed so that the output of the ac ac converter which preferably is also the output of the overall isolated converter e.g. inverter generates sinusoidally encoded bipolar pulses that can be filtered to generate the low frequency ac signals for the load . For the full bridge single phase system shown in and for multi phase systems e.g. three phase systems such as those shown in and the underlying soft switching modulation as shown by example in for a single phase half bridge inverter can remain essentially the same except for a possible adjustment needed depending on the particular topology for adjustment of width of pulses generated by the dc ac converter and methods for doing so will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art. The dc ac converter can be single or multi phase in itself depending typically on single or multi phase application and implementation of multi phase dc ac converters will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally though the example CHFL converter shown generally in includes a control stage having a separate controller and modulator a control stage that integrates the control and modulation into one block such as control stage shown in can instead be provided. Conventionally control and modulation in power electronics are separately designed with modulation mostly open loop. The objective of the example modulation scheme is to translate the continuous control command output of the controller to switching signals e.g. using a predetermined approach so that the switches which typically only understand binary i.e. 0 or 1 signals can be operated. What is controlled by the converter or inverter depends on the application at hand. For instance the control goal could be to regulate output voltage or grid current injection or other goals.

As such the example CHFL shown in can provide inputs to the control stage including reference signals that respectively provide the desired control objective s and real time feedback on a converter system to ascertain the measure of the difference between the desired and actual performances. Output of the controller is thus fed to the modulator block to generate the switching signals for the switches of the converter.

The example approach shown in more directly generates a switching sequence by integrating the control and modulation into a controller such as controller . This example controller can be configured based on an optimal sequence control approach that generates the switching signals for the overall converter based on an optimal criterion e.g. regulate voltage grid current injection and a discontinuous model or the converter. The basic control approaches shown in can be applied to various topographical configurations as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

In an example method according to the present invention open loop control experiments were performed on the example CHFL converter inverter topology shown in as operated using the control scheme shown in FIGS. and A L. The results were compared with a conventional scheme for the ac ac controller as described in S. Deng H. Mao J. Mazumder I. Batarseh and K. Islam A new control scheme for high frequency link inverter design in IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference pp. 512 517 2003 and S. K. Mazumder R. Burra R. Huang M. Tahir K. Acharya G. Garcia S. Pro O. Rodrigues and E. Duheric A high efficiency universal grid connected fuel cell inverter for residential application IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics vol. 57 no. 10 pp. 3431 3447 2010 both of which are incorporated herein by reference. The dc ac converter operates at 20 kHz which transforms to a 40 kHz PWM frequency at the output of the secondary side ac ac converter due to frequency doubling. The rated power of the inverter is 1 kW while the input voltage is set at 36 V. For the dc ac converter OptiMOS power MOSFETs IPP08CN10N G from Infineon are used which have the following specifications voltage and current ratings 100 V 95 A gate charge 100 nC on state resistance 8.2 m . For the ac ac converter Q class HiPerFET Power MOSFETs IXFX21N100Q from IXYS are used. The specifications of this device include voltage and current ratings 1000 V and 21 A gate to source and gate to drain stored charges 27 and 18 nC on state resistance 0.5 . A nanocrystalline core STX 1060M1 is used for the center tapped HF transformer with number of primary and secondary turns as 12 and 104 i.e. 2 52 respectively. Values of the output filter inductance L and capacitance C are set to be 2.4 mH and 0.5 F respectively.

Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things a new zero voltage switching ZVS scheme for ac ac converter of a high frequency link photovoltaic fuel cell inverter. Example schemes can achieve turn on and turn off of all ac ac converter switches under zero voltage switching ZVS condition. Example ZVS methods decouple the conduction and switching losses of the power MOSFETs and as such one can potentially choose power MOSFETs with lower on state resistance at the price of slightly higher output capacitance. Unlike some conventional schemes where a diode and an active device e.g. MOSFET or IGBT conduct during the transition and the on states in example schemes according to the present invention the diode only plays a small role during the transition. As such the reverse recovery problem of the diode is mitigated enabling high frequency switching with minimal compromise in efficiency. Example methods can provide several advantages over conventional inverter operations including but not limited to an ability to operate at higher switching frequency without compromising efficiency and without needing high speed external antiparallel diodes lower part count as compared to a two stage ac ac converter comprising a diode rectifier stage followed by an ac ac or voltage sourced converter and or a single scheme for unity and non unity power factor loads and thus sensing the polarities of the output voltage and output current is not a necessity.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

