---

title: Information organizing sytem and information organizing method
abstract: An information organizing system includes a reference information database storing reference information, a generalized expression unit to map measurement data and non-measurement data in a space in such a manner that the more they resemble each other, the shorter a distance between them becomes, an extended reference database in which the reference information is expressed in an extended manner by using the generalized expression unit, extended log data in which log data is expressed in an extended manner by using the generalized expression unit, a relevance detection unit to detect extended reference information having high relevance with the extended log data, and a template creation unit to create a predetermined template in which the log data is summarized by using the detected extended reference information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09116916&OS=09116916&RS=09116916
owner: NEC CORPORATION
number: 09116916
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110118
---
The present invention relates to an information organizing system and an information organizing method for analyzing and organizing enormous information in particular to an information organizing system and an information organizing method capable of efficiently extracting and displaying information important to a user.

As one of techniques for automatically analyzing and organ zing log data there is a technique for displaying logs of a device that collects geodetic coordinate data such as a GPS logger onto a route on map along which a user has actually traveled. shows an example of a typical data format for OPS log data. By using GPS log data shown in corresponding points on a map can be displayed based on data collected by a GPS logger at regular intervals such as geodetic coordinates as a group of points that are obtained by thinning out the corresponding points on the map at proper intervals with consideration given to the viewability or a group of line segments connecting those points. Then the user can use this route information for example when he she records creates a book of travel or the like.

Further as a related art there is a technique for associating photographs taken by a user with their shooting places and displaying those photographs on a map. In this case a camera is equipped with a function equivalent to a GPS logger in order to associate photograph data with shooting places so that geodetic coordinates can be added to the photograph data. Further it is also possible to find a point in GPS log data that was recorded at a time closest to the shooting time of a photograph by using the shooting time information of the photograph and the GPS log data and thereby to display the photograph on the assumption that the photograph was taken at that point.

When the server implements the function like this the server can use an API Application Programming Interface available from a third party that provides a map utility program. That is it is possible to create an html file and or a blog for the user by converting information into a format conforming to the API supplying the converted information to the API and then processing the obtained output information. In the information organizing system according to the above described related art the user can automatically create a blog or the like without carrying out complicated tasks such as analyzing GPS log data editing corresponding map information and mapping and displaying corresponding photograph data.

In general when GPS log data itself or photograph data itself is displayed the data amount becomes enormous. Therefore it is necessary to select information and or items necessary for the display. As a simple method there is a method for automatically thinning out GPS log data by removing redundant part of the GPS log data or a method in which it is determined whether all the taken photographs are displayed or the enormous data is compressed in accordance with a predetermined rule for example only a predetermined number of photographs are displayed . However it is difficult to output information having high viewability like one that is obtained by summarizing the outline of the log data by using these methods alone. For example in the case of log data relating to a travel it is desirable to create a template like a hook of ravel in which important traffic points and tourist spots are extracted and transfers between them are handled as transfer information. Further for example if famous spot data in which the user has an interest among the nearby famous spots is automatically displayed in that template even when they are not explicitly included in the log data the information value of the template increases.

To achieve this purpose in general a database of famous spots that could become a distinctive feature is prepared. Further information about user s interest is registered in advance. Then to select relevance with the log data relevance between N log data pieces depending on circumstances log data pieces obtained by properly thinning out the original log data pieces and M famous spots registered in the famous spot database is calculated. Further this calculation for extracting relevance can be automatized by carrying out the calculation in accordance with a predetermined rule or criterion in a manual fashion.

For example physical distances from famous spots are extracted by using GPS log data. Then famous spots that are located within a certain radius are selected as candidates. Further they are compared with information about user s interest e.g. category information such as genres in which the user has an interest and they are further narrow down to famous spots that are determined to have high relevance. The determination of relevance can be made possible by performing a plurality of types of calculations including obtaining indices that are quantified by some method by N M precise calculations sorting the obtained indices and narrowing down the sorted indices based on the information about user s interest.

Meanwhile Patent literature 1 discloses a technique for dynamically reading user s interest based on log data without requiring the user to carry out complicated tasks such as the input change of information relating to user s interest and thereby distributing optimal information speedily and efficiently at the time of information distribution. In the information distribution system and information distribution method according to Patent literature 1 when a CM content recommend server receives predetermined information from a user terminal through a distribution management server it identifies the user based on a user ID detects information relating to user s interest while referring to a log data accumulation DB and creates a distribution schedule so that a CM content suitable for the user is transmitted to the user terminal side based on the information relating to user s interest. Then a streaming distribution server reads out the CM content based on the distribution schedule from a CM content accumulation DB and distributes the read CM content to the user terminal.

In the above described information organizing system according to the related art there is a problem that it is very difficult to select information that is considered to be important and characteristic to a user from enormous log data and to speedily and automatically display the summary information. This is because the superiority inferiority of each content data piece is not included in the log data. Further the user cannot determine the superiority inferiority easily until the end of the log collection. Therefore when the information amount is large it is very difficult to input the superiority inferiority information in a manual fashion. Further as explained above in the related art section when a database of a group of information pieces that could become a candidate as characteristic information is created in advance and information having high relevance is extracted with consideration given to the superiority inferiority information that is different from one user to another it is very difficult to display the information speedily because the calculation amount is large.

In view of the above described problem to be solved an object of the present invention is to provide an information organizing system and an information organizing method capable of selecting information that is considered to be important and characteristic to a user from enormous log data and speedily and automatically displaying the summary information.

An information organizing system according to the present invention includes a reference information database that stores reference information generalized expression means to map measurement data and non measurement data in a space in such a manner that the more they resemble each other the shorter a distance between them becomes an extended reference information database that stores extended reference information that is generated by expressing the reference information in an extended manner by using the generalized expression means extended log data that is generated by expressing log data in an extended manner by using the generalized expression means relevance detection means to measure a strength of relevance between the extended reference information and the extended log data based on a distance in the mapped space and detect extended reference information having high relevance with the extended log data and template creation means to create a predetermined template in which the log data is summarized by using the extended reference information detected by the relevance detection means.

An information organizing method according to the present invention includes registering log data generating extended reference information by expressing reference information in an extended manner by using generalized expression means to map measurement data and non measurement data in a space in such a manner that the more they resemble each other the shorter a distance between them becomes generating extended log data by expressing the log data in an extended manner by using the generalized expression means measuring strength or relevance between the extended reference information and the extended log data based on a distance in the mapped space and detecting extended reference information having high relevance with the extended log data and creating a predetermined template in which the log data is summarized by using the detected extended reference information.

A program that causes a computer to execute a process for creating a predetermined template from a registered log data according to the present invention causes a computer to execute processes including generating extended reference information by expressing reference information in an extended manner by using generalized expression means to map measurement data and non measurement data in a space in such a manner that the more they resemble each other the shorter a distance between them becomes generating extended log data by expressing the log data in an extended manner by using the generalized expression means measuring strength of relevance between the extended reference information and the extended log data based on a distance in the mapped space and detecting extended reference information having high relevance with the extended log data and creating a predetermined template in which the log data is summarized by using the detected extended reference information.

According to the present invention it is possible to provide an information organizing system and an information organizing method capable of selecting information that is considered to be important and characteristic to a user from enormous log data and speedily and automatically displaying summary information.

Exemplary embodiments according to the present invention are explained hereinafter with reference to the drawings. is a block diagram showing an information organizing system according to this exemplary embodiment. As shown in an information organizing system according to this exemplary embodiment includes a reference information database that contains feature points and feature point information relating to the feature points hereinafter they are also called reference information generalized expression means an extended reference information database that are expressed in a generalized manner by the generalized expression means stochastic indexation means and an index table that is obtained by converting extended reference information into indices by using the stochastic indexation means . Further the information organizing system also includes extended log data that is obtained by expressing log data uploaded from a user by using an upload device as a space in which distances are defined by using the generalized expression means typically points in a vector space and relevance detection means to stochastically detect extended reference information having high relevance with the extended log data among extended reference information registered in the index table . Note that reference information and extended reference information may be also expressed simply as feature point in the following explanation.

The information organizing system according to this exemplary embodiment also includes a related feature point group that is a group of extended reference information pieces detected by the relevance detection means a scoring policy that is used to rank feature points extended reference information ranking means to rank the above described related feature point group according to their superiority inferiority importance a feature point list that is obtained by ranking feature points by the ranking means and template creation means to create a template composed of the log data and feature point information having high relevance with them based on the feature point list . Note that the template is for example document information typified by html data such as a blog.

The reference information database is a database of information that is commonly useful when a user creates summarized information such as a book of travel from log data such as famous spots and important traffic points. The information accumulated by the reference information database includes feature points and feature point information information containing information content as a feature that is information relating to those feature points. Basic information relating to each feature point such as its name geodetic coordinate information and information about the type category of its famous spot and detailed information feature point information typified by the description of its feature and user s review comments are associated with each feature point. Note that the feature point information includes measurement information that is directly measured and expressed in a measurement vector space e.g. a three dimensional space consisting of latitude longitude and altitude such as geodetic coordinates and non measurement information describing a feature of a feature point such as category information .

The generalized expression means quantifies the measurement information e.g. the geodetic coordinates and the non measurement information e.g. category information among the above described feature point information in such a manner that the mutual relation of their features are appropriately expressed and expresses them as points in a multi dimensional vector space. For example the generalized expression means expresses feature points in such a manner that feature points having mutually similar non measurement features are disposed spatially close to each other. In this case the generalized vector space is expressed by the direct sum of the vector space used to express the above described measurement information and the vector space used for the quantified expression of the non measurement information and its dimension is expressed as dimension of measurement vector space dimension of vector space in which non measurement information is quantified . Examples of the method for quantifying non measurement include a method using multidimensional scaling. However the method for quantifying non measurement is not necessarily limited to this method in this exemplary embodiment. That is any method can be used provided that feature points having similar features are disposed at mutually close points and a relation between feature points is reflected by their spatial position relation.

The extended reference information database is a database containing detailed information of feature points each of which is obtained by quantifying a feature point registered in the reference information database by the generalized expression means and thereby re expressing the feature point by a generalized expression. This is a database in which generalized expressions corresponding to feature points are registered for ID information or names of those feature points.

The stochastic indexation means is means to convert feature points registered in the extended reference information database into indices by stochastic neighborhood detection means that is designed in such a manner that the nearer feature points are located each other with the higher probability they are assigned with entry IDs in the same index table. In this case for example approximate neighboring point search technique LSH Locality Sensitive Hashing can be used. Although the following explanation is made by using the LSH as a typical example of the approximate neighboring point search technique techniques other than the LSH can be also used provided that they can achieve a similar function to the LSH.

The LSH is a function of associating a point in a vector space with an ID label of an entry on a hash table and its method. The LSH is a technique that is designed in such a manner that the shorter the distance between two points is with the higher probability they are hashed in the same entry. The LSD is applied to a neighborhood detection problem problem to detect when a query vector is given a vector located near the query vector and the like. For the details of its algorithm for example see Mayur Datar Nicole Immorlica Piotr Indyk Vahab S. Mirrokni Locality sensitive hashing scheme based on p stable distributions. Proceedings of the twentieth annual symposium on Computational geometry pp. 253 262 2004 Brooklyn N.Y. USA.

The index table is an information table in which a plurality of feature points are registered for entries having respective entry IDs and is designed in such a manner that by designating an entry ID as a key the pointer of feature point information registered there and its detailed entity information can be referred. In the case where the above described LSH is used an entry ID a pair of hash values is a key and it is possible to refer to feature point information registered for that entry. When there are no restrictions on the calculation time it may be designed in such a manner that points that are located close to each other in a generalized vector space are registered in the same entry based on precise distance calculation. As an example there is a technique using Voronoi tessellation or the like.

The log data is information that is obtained and uploaded to a sever by a user typified by for example GPS geodetic coordinates obtained by a GPS logger photograph data taken by a digital camera and so on.

The extended log data is data that is obtained by quantifying the log data by the generalized expression means and thereby expressed by a generalized expression as in the case of the above described extended reference information database . In this process in order to conform its dimension with the dimension of the vector space expressed by the generalized expression means for the feature points extended reference information database the dimension is extended based on information unique to the user e.g. preference information such as category information in which the user has a strong interest . For example when the feature point includes its category information in addition to the physical geodetic coordinates of the feature point the dimension is extended by incorporating the category information in which the user has a strong interest into the GPS data so that the generalized expression of the log data is disposed near the generalized expression of a feature point of which the interest is close. In contrast to this if there is no category information in which the user has a strong interest a method in which a predetermined initial value is set for example is used.

The relevance detection means extracts extended feature point information having high relevance with the extended log data among the extended feature point information registered in the index table and outputs it as a relevance feature point group . For example the relevance detection means extracts closeness in spatial distance as a feature point having high relevance by using the LSH. Specifically the extended log data is input to the LSH and the output entry ID a pair of hash values is examined. Then by using the entry ID as a key feature point information registered in the index table is extracted. As the characteristic of the index table there is a high possibility that feature points that are close to each other in the generalized vector space i.e. feature points having high relevance are registered in entries having the same table label. Therefore feature points registered in entries having a table label of a certain data point of the extended log data have high relevance with each other.

Further there is a high possibility that a feature point having next high relevance is registered in its neighborhood e.g. entry having a next table label . Therefore it is possible to search for feature points having high relevance by searching neighboring table entries through a similar procedure until the necessary number of feature points is obtained. Note that in this exemplary embodiment the relevance detection means does not necessarily have to use the LSH. That is any method can be used provided the method can extract extended feature points having high relevance with the extended log data among the extended feature points registered in the index table and output them as the related feature point group .

A series of feature point detection methods explained above does not extract feature points by using mere physical closeness between the log data and the geodetic coordinates of the feature points but does extract feature points with consideration given to information about user s interest. That is closeness to a feature point including user context information such as information about user s interest is expressed as strength of relevance. Then it is possible to extract a feature point in such a manner that the more the relevance is strong the closer in the generalized vector space with the higher probability the feature point is extracted as information that is interest and valuable to the user. Note that the main reason for the use of the stochastic indexation means using the LSH is to put importance on its speediness and thereby to reduce the calculation cost. Therefore when there are no restrictions on the calculation cost it is possible to use other neighboring point detection techniques such as neighborhood calculation based on precise calculation and Voronoi tessellation.

The scoring policy is defined and provided for each user. In the scoring policy information and rules that are used to determine superiority importance for the importance of extracted feature points are described. The number of feature points to be extracted can be arbitrarily determined. However if the number is too small it is very difficult to extract feature points that sufficiently conform to the user s interest. On the other hand if the number is too large the calculation takes time. In addition since information that is not very important is included the effectiveness is lowered. Therefore in this exemplary embodiment it is desirable to extract the appropriate number of feature points according to the calculation cost and then to displaying them in the descending order of importance by carrying out scoring.

As the scoring policy when there is an advance knowledge about feature point information on which importance is to be put for example importance is put on a feature point of which other user s rating is high and or on a feature point belonging to a category in which the user had an interest in the past a rule specifying that that feature point is rated in a high position based on this knowledge is described. Further for example when data collected by a user such as photograph data of a digital camera or the like is located near a feature point not only the simple distance comparison in the generalized vector space but also closeness in terms of for example GPS geodetic coordinates and shooting time a rule specifying that that feature point is rated at a high position as an evidence indicating that the user has a stronger interest can be described. The above described description example of the scoring policy is a mere example and the scoring policy can be arbitrarily described based on the management policy of the administrator.

The ranking means based on importance ranks the related feature point group by using the above described scoring policy and outputs the ranked feature points group as a feature point list . If necessary it is also possible to set the upper limit value for the number of feature points to be selected such as selecting ten feature points from the highest position.

The template creation means creates a template in accordance with a format that is determined in advance based on the feature point list . Note that examples of the template include document information described in a markup language typified by to example xml and html . This template is constructed along a temporal shift of feature points that are extracted as a basic structure based on for example the log data of the user. Typical examples of the template include a book of travel or the like in which characteristic famous spots through which the user has traveled from the start point to the end point and connection information between these spots transportation means required time and the like are recorded based on GPS data input by the user.

The user can further edit this template . For this it is possible to make the user s editing task easier by reconstructing the information of feature points that were considered to have high relevance and thereby extracted from the log data but were not displayed because of the result of the ranking process based on the scoring policy and data closely related to this feature point information by using this template .

Next an operation of the information organizing system according to this exemplary embodiment is explained with reference to . Note that in the operation shown in it is assumed that all reference information information about feature points such as famous spots is converted into indexes in advance by the above described generalized expression means through an off line process and extended reference information is already registered in the index table . A user process on the client side and a processing process on the server side are carried out as shown below.

As shown in a user logs in to the server system as he she desires and uploads log data of various devices typified by a GPS logger to the server by using a data read device or the like step S .

Next on the server side in response to the upload performed by the user the uploaded log data is processed and thus its extended log data expressed in a generalized manner is obtained by using the generalized expression means step S . Note that the data processing is a series of data processing processes that are carried out according to a predetermined rule necessary for the subsequent process such as thinning out process of unnecessary GPS data and dimension compression or expansion process to conform the dimension. Note that these processes are a mere example. That is the data processing can be arbitrarily determined. Further the extended log data is described in a format that makes it possible to calculate an entry ID of the corresponding index table .

Next an entry ID of the index table onto which the extended log data is mapped is calculated through the above described stochastic indexation means step S .

Next a feature point having high relevance with the extended data is detected from the entry ID obtained in the step S by using the relevance detection means step S . Typically a feature point that is registered in a table entry having that entry ID is regarded as a feature point having the highest relevance. Then a feature point having next highest relevance is extracted by searching neighboring table or carrying out a similar process as required and by doing so a predetermined number of feature points are extracted. The number of extracted feature points is usually determined according to a predetermined rule that depends on the indexation means and is a number that is determined for example by defining the lower limit and the upper limit. Note that the rule that is used to determine the number of feature points to be extracted is not limited to the above described rule and can be arbitrarily determined.

Next the extracted feature point group is ranked in accordance with the scoring policy importance and or priority according to the user by using the ranking means step S . The scoring policy can be defined based on various rules including the importance of the feature points themselves such as important traffic points preference information such as user s interests and reputations by other users. Note that preference information of the user for example can be defined based on user s profile and activity history such as past activity pattern and rating information. Further preference information of the user can be arbitrarily defined.

Next a template that expresses summary information of the log data is created according to a predetermined process based on the ranked feature point group by using the template creation means step S . Typically the template is described by html or the like. However it is not limited to html or the like. In the case of GPS data that is obtained when the user travels it becomes for example one shown in . In as a template based on GPS data obtained through the travel a predetermined number of feature points and having high relevance with its path are extracted and displayed in a time series manner. Further for each of the feature point and corresponding one of the feature point information pieces and is displayed. Further as connection information pieces and corresponding to paths and between the feature points and it is possible to display transfer information that can be surmised from for example a time spent for the transfer and or previous and subsequent feature points and necessary traveling time such as transportation means. Note that the output example shown in is a mere example and the template that expresses summary information of the log data can be arbitrarily determined.

Further feature points other than those used for the display and related information can be reconstructed no that the user can edit them with ease. The displayed template is just a template and the user can increase the number of feature points to be displayed or delete some of them based on this template information. For this when the number of feature points is increased for example it is possible to in response to a right click on connection information display information having high relevance with the connection information in a pull down menu or the like. Note that the information having high relevance with connection information is for example information that belongs to the connection information hut was not selected based on the result of the ranking process in the step S. In this case the data is regrouped associated and ranked for each feature point and or connection information hereinafter a feature point and connection information is also called display object so that information having high relevance with connection information can be displayed according to the priority order.

Further it is possible to further edit the data and post additional information with ease by associating a feature point selected as a display object with highly related data such as photograph data and text data describing the feature in advance. Note that in addition to the highly related feature point information detected by the relevance detection means detailed information such as comments and photographs that are associated with feature points registered in the reference information database in advance for example can be also included in this data to be associated. Further for example photograph data obtained by user s digital camera and comment information can be also registered in the index table according to the relevance by using a similar technique to the above described technique based on their creation time place and can be reconstructed by using a similar technique.

An example of reconstruction is explained hereinafter with reference to . As shown in for feature points and and connection information pieces and constituting a template to be displayed it is possible to associate various supplemental information having high relevance with feature point information and connection information other than these display objects with respective display objects by using a technique shown below.

The template information composed of the feature points and and the connection information pieces and between the feature points shown in is automatically generated based on an information group such as extracted feature point information general information associated with the feature points and log data . In this example the information group is decomposed and reconstructed according to the relevance with the feature points and and the connection information pieces and .

Further for example connection information is reconstructed and associated with information including a related feature point sub group a log data candidate sub group and a general data candidate sub group . Further a feature point is reconstructed and associated with information including a log data candidate sub group and a general data candidate sub group . Further it is possible to automatically display detailed information of a display object as the detailed information of the display object according to a predetermined rule by using pre prepared detailed information. For example a note such as text information describing a feature point in detail or photograph information can be automatically created from general information relating to the extracted feature point and associated with the feature point . Then the node can be automatically displayed by using a rule specifying that it is automatically displayed according to its importance or the like.

Next the created template information is transferred to the client side through a network step S . The user displays and checks the template information transferred from the server by using a user terminal step S . Further the user can edit template information by using the displayed template information and the log data that has been reconstructed by the above described technique steps S and S . Then the editing of the template information by the user is completed and the template creation task is finished step S .

By using the information organizing system and the information organizing method according to this exemplary embodiment explained above it is possible to omit unnecessary details from enormous log data and thereby to swiftly display information that is obtained by preferentially summarizing part of the log data that is important to the user. This is because by using a database in which an information group that could become characteristic information with a high probability is collected and information about user s profile important information can be swiftly extracted from the log data.

Further by using the information organizing system and the information organizing method according to this exemplary embodiment it is possible to associate related information that is not directly included in the user s log data but has high relevance with the user s log data is important to the user or attracts user s interest with a high probability with the summary display of the log data and thereby to display the related information together with the summary display of the log data.

Next a specific example in which template information is created by using the information organizing system and the information organizing method according to the above described exemplary embodiment is explained. As a specific example a system capable of automatically outputting a book of travel template by uploading GPS data that a user has collected when the user has traveled is explained.

The application server includes a template creation application   indexation means   policy information   and reconstruction data  . Further the database server includes an index table   user information   and a reference information database  .

In the reference information database   of the database server data relating to feature points shown in for example is registered. Each feature point is extended to a generalized expression and closeness in spatial distance is extracted as a high y related feature point by using the LSH. Further they are stored in the index table  . The database server carries out these processes in advance through an off line process. Note that in the reference information database   feature points geodetic coordinates category information and rating information are registered.

This generalized vector space is expressed as the direct sum of the three dimensional physical geodetic coordinate space and the vector space expressing the category information. In general for a positive integer K the category information space can be expressed as a K dimensional space. However in this exemplary embodiment for the sake of simplicity it is assumed that there are two categories mountain and theme park and they are expressed in two points in one dimension 1 is mountain and 1 is theme park .

Further when the geodetic coordinate space is also simplified and expressed in two dimensions by ignoring the height direction an expression in the generalized vector space is expressed as a point in two dimensional physical geodetic coordinate space one dimensional category information three dimensional vector space . For example feature point A is a1 a2 1 feature point B is b1 b2 1 feature point C is c1 c2 1 and feature point D is d1 d2 1 . They are located in points and respectively in a three dimensional vector space shown in . However it is assumed that a1 a2 c1 c2 d1 and d2 are component values in a two dimensional space obtained by ignoring the height direction of the geodetic coordinates of the feature points A C and D. These feature points are registered in the index table   stored in the database server . Alternatively this index table   may be stored in the application server .

Further for these feature points it is possible to specify rating information by other users by using a real number in the range of 0 1 in advance. It is assumed that the larger the rating information is the higher the evaluation is the higher the popularity is . In this example it is assumed that the feature point A is 0.8 the feature point B is 0.7 the feature point C is 0.5 and the feature point D is 0.9.

It is assumed that GPS log data input by a user is discrete data i.e. geodetic coordinates that are distributed between a point X x1 x2 to a point Y y1 y2 at appropriate time intervals. This GPS log data forms a straight path from the point X x1 x2 to the point Y y1 y2 . Further it is assumed that based on the past history of the user it is defined that the user has a strong interest in mountains and small interest in theme parks as information about user s interest. It is assumed that this information is expressed by vector components in the generalized vector. This can be determined based on for example the category information of photograph data the number of photographs of mountains is high or the like uploaded by the user in the past.

In this exemplary embodiment for the sake of simplicity it is expressed as a point in one dimensional vector space i.e. the category information space. It is expressed by an internally dividing point in the range of 1 to 1 . For example when the number or mountain photographs is nine and the number of theme part photograph is one it is expressed as 9 1 1 1 10 0.8.1 En this case the component value about the interest category of this user is 0.8 and the expression of the path of the GPS log data in the generalized vector space is extended to a path in two dimensional physical geodetic coordinate space one dimensional category information three dimensional vector space as shown in and thus becomes a path on a surface .

The expression of the GPS log data of this user hereinafter called generalized path is a group of points on a straight line extending from x1 x2 0.8 to y1 y2 0.8 . The geometric positions of the start point and the end point of this generalized path are expressed by points and respectively in and the generalized path is expressed by a path for the path of its geodetic coordinates. That is the extended log data obtained by expressing the path which is the log data in an extended manner by using generalized expression means becomes the path .

When the user uploads GPS log data the web server issues a template file creation request to the application server . In the application server the application   that creates a template from user s log data is installed. When the application server obtains the log data uploaded from the web server the application server creates extended log data by processing the data together with information about user s interest as described above and thereby converting the processed data into a generalized expression.

Further the application server supplies the created extended log data to the LSH examines an entry ID output from the LSH and extracts a feature point group including a predetermined number of highly related feature points from the index table   located in the database server by using that entry ID as a key. In this process if the number of extracted data pieces does not reach the predetermined number data pieces are further obtained from neighboring table entries in the ascending order of their distance. Then when the number of data pieces reaches the predetermined number the data obtaining process is stopped.

In this exemplary embodiment it is assumed that the number of feature points to be extracted is two. In this case as shown in since the feature point A and the feature point C are closely located to the user s path in the generalized expression they are extracted. In contrast to this since the feature point B is distant along the category information axis it is not detected as being located near the generalized path. This result reflects the fact that this user has a stronger interest in mountains than in theme parks. Further since the feature point D is distant from the user s path in terms of physical distance it is determined to be irrelevant to this log data and thus is not extracted.

When the group of highly related feature points feature points A and C is obtained the feature points are ranked based on the user information   stored in the database server and the policy information   stored in the application server and an object s to be displayed is thereby determined. The policy information can be determined in various manners. However for the sake of simplicity rating information by other users is used in this exemplary embodiment. Therefore the feature points are sorted in such a manner that the feature point A having higher rating information is ranked in a higher position than the feature point C. As a result the feature point A is used more preferentially than the feature point C.

By using this result a template written in a format that can be displayed in a web browser such as html is created. For the sake of simplicity it is configured in such a manner that only one feature point is displayed in this exemplary embodiment. Therefore the feature point A is selected. Note that as described above the data such as highly related feature point information and detailed information associated to that feature point information is reconstructed for each of the display objects start point X end point Y feature point A connection information of X A and connection information of A Y and this reconstructed data   is stored in the application server .

As a result of this process a template book of travel shown in is created. The template book of travel shown in has the start point X and the end point Y. Further information of the start point X and information of the start point Y are displayed at the start point X and the end point Y respectively. Further the extracted feature point A is a feature point that is presumed to have the highest relevance with the user in the travel from the start point X to the end point Y. Therefore information about the feature point A is automatically displayed.

Further connection information of the path X A and connection information of the path A Y are also automatically created and information such as elapsed time for example can be displayed. Note that information of the feature point C which is another detected feature point is reconstructed so that it is associated with connection information object between the feature point A and the end point Y. In this way when the user selects connection information A Y and further edits the template to add new information for example that information can be preferentially display.

Note that the data defined in this exemplary embodiment is just a simplified example. For example in the generalized expression it is possible to add other measurement data such time information in addition to the GPS information. Further it is also possible to increase the dimension and thereby display more complicated information by incorporating information composed of other non measurement data including category information. Further the generalized path does not necessarily have to be a path on a fixed plane. That is it is possible to add an extension such as expressing it a curved surface that depends on the place and expressing it by a plurality of generalized paths for which weights are stochastically defined.

According to the information organizing system and the information organizing method in accordance with the present invention explained above by uploading log data to the server it is possible to automatically create a hook of travel a book of activity or the like while maintaining the response ability with an excellent real time ability. Further the information organizing system and the information organizing method according to the present invention is also applicable to other purposes including recommending related information such as highly related shops and tourist spots from the activity pattern of a user based on log data and displaying advertisements containing highly relevant information.

Note that the information organizing system according to this exemplary embodiment may include at least components shown in . That is the information organizing system according to this exemplary embodiment includes a reference information database storing reference information generalized expression means to map measurement data and non measurement data in a space in such a manner that the more they resemble each other the shorter a distance between them becomes an extended reference database storing extended reference information that is generated by expressing the reference information in an extended manner by using the generalized expression means extended log data that is generated by expressing log data in an extended manner by using the generalized expression means relevance detection means to measure a strength of relevance between the extended reference information and the extended log data based on a distance in the mapped space and detect extended reference information having high relevance with the extended log data and template creation means to create a predetermined template in which the log data is summarized by using the extended reference information detected by the relevance detection means . As a result the above described advantageous effects can be achieved. Note that each component shown in is already explained above with reference to and therefore its explanation is omitted.

Further a program that causes a computer to execute a process of creating a predetermined template from registered log data according to this exemplary embodiment causes the computer to execute the following steps a step of generating extended reference information by expressing reference information in an extended manner by using generalized expression means to map measurement data and non measurement data in a space in such a manner that the more they resemble each other the shorter a distance between them becomes a step of generating extended log data by expressing the registered log data in an extended manner by using the generalized expression means a step of measuring a strength of relevance between the extended reference information and the extended log data based on a distance in the mapped space and detecting extended reference information having high relevance with the extended log data and a step of creating a predetermined template in which the log data is summarized by using the detected extended reference information.

The above described program can be stored in various types of non transitory computer readable media and thereby supplied to computers. The non transitory computer readable media includes various types of tangible storage media. Examples of the non transitory computer readable media include a magnetic recording medium such as a flexible disk a magnetic tape and a hard disk drive a magneto optic recording medium such as a magneto optic disk a CD ROM Read Only Memory a CD R and a CD R W and a semiconductor memory such as a mask ROM a PROM Programmable ROM an EPROM Erasable PROM a flash ROM and a RAM Random Access Memory . Further the program can be supplied to computers by using various types of transitory computer readable media. Examples of the transitory computer readable media include an electrical signal an optical signal and an electromagnetic wave. The transitory computer readable media can be used to supply programs to computer through a wire communication path such as an electrical wire and an optical fiber or wireless communication path.

Although the present invention has been explained with reference to exemplary embodiments in the above explanation the present invention is not limited to the above described exemplary embodiments. Various modifications that can be understood by those skilled in the art can be made to the configuration and the details of the present invention without departing from the scope of the present invention.

This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from Japanese patent application No. 2010 031533 filed on Feb. 16 2010 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

