---

title: Associated with abnormal application-specific activity monitoring in a computing network
abstract: Embodiments herein disclosed provide for computer network security and, more specifically, monitoring application-based access to secure data and monitoring predetermined actions conducted on applications to determine abnormal access or abnormal actions. Specific embodiments of the invention provide for improved database which implements time period-structured tables and file directories. Such structuring of the database provides for automated data purging, backing-up of data and data recovery. Additional embodiments provide for tracking data attributes related to the monitored data, such as the quality of the monitored data, the quality of the monitored data and the origin of the monitored data. In addition, embodiments provide for validating the source of the monitored data to assure that data is received from a valid application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08745759&OS=08745759&RS=08745759
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08745759
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110131
---
In general embodiments herein disclosed relate to systems methods and computer program products for computer network security and more specifically monitoring access to secure data through applications and monitoring predetermined actions conducted on applications to determine abnormal access or abnormal actions.

Conventional network information security systems allowed access to sensitive information for example via a password without anyone in the organization knowing what information was being accessed by an application or how the information was accessed. Some traditional information security systems generated and maintained user logs. However such systems do not provide for easily determining what information was accessed who accessed it and what functions were perform with the information without burdening the system with applications running on an application layer. In addition such systems do not provide for monitoring predetermined actions taken at the application level which may be a cause for concern in terms of data security or performing prohibited and or illegal actions.

Embodiments of the present invention address at least the above noted drawbacks associated with traditional information security systems.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

A method for determining abnormal behavior in a computing network defines first embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications. The method additionally includes storing the first and second data in a database which is configured to store the first and second data in a specified table based on a predetermined period of time such a s a calendar month or the like associated with the receipt of the data. In addition the method includes determining one or more abnormal behaviors based on comparing the first data to predetermined first abnormal access criteria and comparing the second data to predetermined abnormal action criteria.

In specific embodiments the method further includes generating a new table in the database based on occurrence of a new predetermined time period such as generating a new table based on anew calendar month or the like.

In additional specific embodiments the method further includes automatically purging a specified table from the database based on a time period associated with the specified table and a predetermined time required for storage.

Other specific embodiments of the method provide for storing the first and second data in a file system which is configured to store the first and second data in a specified file directory based on a date associated with the receipt of the data. In such embodiments the method may additionally include automatically purging a specified file directory from the file system based on a date associated with the specified file directory and a predetermined time required for storage.

In still further specific embodiments the method includes communicating the stored first and second data to a back up database which is configured to store the first and second data for a predetermined period of time.

A further method for monitoring data attributes in a system for determining abnormal behavior in a computing network provides for second embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications. The method further includes tracking first data attributes related to the first data and second data attributes related to the second data. The first and second data attributes are associated with at least one of a an origin of the data b a quantity of data received or c a quality of data received. Additionally the method includes automatically generating one or more reports that indicate performance of the system based on the first data attributes and second data attributes. In addition the method provides that the received first data is compared to predetermined abnormal access criteria and the second data is compared to predetermined abnormal action criteria to determine one or more abnormal behaviors.

In specific embodiments of the method tracking further includes tracking the first and second data attributes that are associated with the quantity of data received including one or more of a an overall volume of first and second data being received b a volume of first and second data being received from a specified application or c a volume of first and second data being received that is associated with one or more specific users.

In other specific embodiments of the method tracking further includes tracking the first and second data attributes that are associated with the quality of data being received including one or more of a a volume of first and second data being stored b a volume of first and second data being rejected c a reason for rejecting first or second data.

In still further specific embodiments of the method tracking further includes tracking the first and second data attributes that are associated with the origin of the data being received including one or more of a an application associated with the data b a location where the application was executed or c a delivery path for receiving the first and second data.

Another method for assuring data source in a system for determining abnormal behavior in a computing network defines third embodiments of the invention. The method includes validating authentication credentials from an application requesting to deliver first data related to accessing secure information from the application or second data related to performing predetermined actions on applications. The method further includes receiving via one of web service communication or message queuing communication the first data or second data based on the validation. The method further provides that the received first data is compared to predetermined abnormal access criteria and the second data is compared to predetermined abnormal action criteria to determine one or more abnormal behaviors.

In specific embodiments of the method validation further includes validating authentication credentials generated by the application and receiving further includes receiving via web service communication the first data or second data based on the validation.

In other specific embodiments of the method validating further includes registering the application s validation credentials with the system prior to validating and receiving further includes receiving via message queuing communication the first data or second data based on the validation.

An apparatus for determining abnormal behavior in a computing network provides for fourth embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform including at least one processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The apparatus additionally includes an abnormal behavior tracking module stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to determine abnormal user activity associated with applications used in a computing network. The module includes a services sub module configured to receive first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications. The services sub module includes a database configured to store the first and second data in a specified table based on a predetermined period of time such as a calendar month or the like associated with the receipt of the data. The module further includes an analytics sub module configured to determine one or more abnormal behaviors based on comparing the first data to predetermined first abnormal access criteria and comparing the second data to predetermined abnormal action criteria.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the abnormal behavior tracking module further includes a table generation routine configured to generate a new table in the database based on occurrence of a new predetermined time period such as a new calendar month or the like.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the abnormal behavior tracking module further includes a data purge routine configured to automatically purge a specified table from the database based on a time period associated with the specified table and a predetermined time required for storage.

In still further specific embodiments of the apparatus the database further includes a file system configured to store the first and second data in a specified file directory based on a date associated with the receipt of the data. In such embodiments of the apparatus the abnormal behavior tracking module may further include a data purge routine configured to automatically purge a specified file directory from the file system based on a date associated with the specified file directory and a predetermined time required for storage.

In yet other specific embodiments of the apparatus the abnormal behavior tracking module further includes a data back up routine configured to communicate the stored first and second data to a back up database that is configured to store the first and second data for a predetermined period of time.

Another apparatus for monitoring data attributes in a system for determining abnormal behavior in a computing network provides for fifth embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform including at least one processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The apparatus further includes an abnormal behavior tracking module stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to determine abnormal user activity associated with applications used in a computing network. The module includes a services sub module configured to receive first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications. The services sub module includes a data attribute tracking routine configured to automatically track first data attributes related to the first data and second data attributes related to the second data. The first and second data attributes are associated with at least one of a an origin of the data b a quantity of data received or c a quality of data received. The services sub module additionally includes a report generating routine configured to generate one or more reports that indicate performance of the system based on the first data attributes and second data attributes. The module also includes an analytics sub module configured to determine one or more abnormal behaviors based on comparing the first data to predetermined first abnormal access criteria and comparing the second data to predetermined abnormal action criteria.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the data attribute tracking routine is further configured to track the first and second data attributes such that the first and second data attributes are associated with the quantity of data received and include one or more of a an overall volume of first and second data being received b a volume of first and second data being received from a specified application or c a volume of first and second data being received that is associated with one or more specific users.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the data attribute tracking routine is further configured to track the first and second data attributes such that the first and second data attributes are associated the quality of data being received and include one or more of a a volume of first and second data being stored b a volume of first and second data being rejected c a reason for rejecting first or second data.

In still further specific embodiments of the apparatus the data attribute tracking routine is further configured to track the first and second data attributes such that the first and second data attributes are associated the origin of the data being received including one or more of a an application associated with the data b a location where the application was executed or c a delivery path for receiving the first and second data.

An apparatus for assuring data source in a system for determining abnormal behavior in a computing network provides for sixth embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform including at least one processor and a memory in communication with the processor. The apparatus further includes an abnormal behavior tracking module stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to determine abnormal user activity associated with applications used in a computing network. The module includes a services sub module configured to receive first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications. The services sub module additionally includes a validation routine configured to validate authentication credentials from an application requesting to deliver the first or second data via one of web service communication or message queuing communication. The module further includes an analytics sub module configured to determine one or more abnormal behaviors based on comparing the first data to predetermined first abnormal access criteria and comparing the second data to predetermined abnormal action criteria.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the validation routine is further configured to validate the authentication credentials generated by the application requesting to deliver the first or second data via web service communication. On other related specific embodiments of the apparatus the validation routine is further configured to register the validation credentials associated with the application requesting to deliver the first or second data via message queuing communication.

A computer program product including a computer readable medium defines seventh embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications. The computer readable medium additionally includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to store the first and second data in a database which is configured to store the first and second data in a specified table based on a predetermined period of time such as a calendar month or the like associated with the receipt of the data Additionally the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to determine one or more abnormal behaviors based on a comparing the first data to predetermined first abnormal access criteria and comparing the second data to predetermined abnormal action criteria.

Another computer program product including a computer readable medium defines eighth embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications. The computer readable medium additionally includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to automatically track first data attributes related to the first data and second data attributes related to the second data. The first and second data attributes are associated with at least one of a an origin of the data b a quantity of data received or c a quality of data received. Additionally the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to automatically generate one or more reports that indicate performance of the system based on the first data attributes and second data attributes.

Moreover yet another computer program product including a computer readable medium provides for ninth embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to validate authentication credentials from an application requesting to deliver first data related to accessing secure information from the application or second data related to performing predetermined actions on applications. In addition the computer readable medium includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to receive via one of web service communication or message queuing communication the first data or second data based on the validation. Additionally the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to determine one or more abnormal behaviors based on a comparing the first data to predetermined first abnormal access criteria and comparing the second data to predetermined abnormal action criteria.

Thus embodiments of the invention as described in detail below provide for computer network security and more specifically monitoring application based access to secure data and monitoring predetermined actions conducted on the applications to determine abnormal access or abnormal actions. Specific embodiments of the invention provide for an improved database for storing the monitored data. The database implements time period structured tables and file directories which increases the data storage and provides for automated data purging backing up of data and data recovery. Additional embodiments provide for tracking data attributes related to the monitored data such as the quality of the monitored data the quality of the monitored data and the origin of the monitored data. In addition embodiments provide for validating the source of the monitored data to assure that data is received from a valid application.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more embodiments. It may be evident however that such embodiment s may be practiced without these specific details. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Various embodiments or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules and the like. and or may not include all of the devices components modules and the like discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

The steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some embodiments the processor and the storage medium may reside in an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device. Additionally in some embodiments the events and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein include compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The matters exemplified in this description are provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of exemplary embodiments of the present invention described with reference to the accompanying drawing figures. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the exemplary embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention. Also descriptions of well known functions and constructions are omitted for clarity and conciseness. Likewise certain naming conventions labels and terms as used in the context of the present disclosure are as would be understood by skilled artisans non limiting and provided only for illustrative purposes to facilitate understanding of certain exemplary implementations of the embodiments of the present invention.

Thus apparatus methods and computer program products are herein described for improvements related to a system for tracking abnormal behavior in computer network and specifically abnormal behavior occurring via application use. The abnormal behavior may include abnormal access to secure data stored in conjunction with an application abnormal action taken on an application or the like. Specifically exemplary embodiments can facilitate recognizing and preventing unauthorized access or activities by recording instances where specified data for example sensitive and or non public personal information is accessed for example created read changed or deleted or specific actions are performed.

The system provides comparing received data related to accessing secure data or performing specified actions to predetermined abnormal behavior criteria to determine if the accessing of the secure data or the performing of the specified action rises to the level of being an abnormal behavior which would prompt further investigative actions.

Exemplary implementations of the present invention provide a method system and apparatus for collecting event activity information on a computer network where the information can be used to identify unauthorized activity and provide evidence in legal actions against the perpetrators. The security mechanisms as disclosed by exemplary implementations of the present invention support protecting integrity of the collected information logs in transit and during storage. Specifically exemplary implementations of the present invention can be used to ensure the admissibility of the collected information as evidence in legal proceedings.

According to specific embodiments improvements to the abnormal behavior tracking system herein described and claimed relate to a scalable database implemented in conjunction with the abnormal behavior tracking system. The database provides for data to be scored in tables which are based on predetermined time period in which the data was received for example calendar month tables or the like. Such time based tables are instrumental in assuring requirements related to proper data purge data back up and or data recovery.

Further improvements to the abnormal behavior tracking system herein described and claimed relate to data attribute tracking in which attributes related to the received data i.e. data related to access of secure data and or data related to performing specified actions to tracked and report. The data attributes may pertain to the source origin of the data the quantity of the data the quality of the data or any other attributes that may benefit the overall management of the abnormal behavior tracking system.

Additional improvements to the abnormal behavior tracking system herein described and claimed relate to validating the source of received data i.e. data related to access of secure data and or data related to performing specified actions . Validating the source of the data assures that the data is coming from where the data says it is coming from and that it is not being spoofed from another non validated non authenticate source.

Referring to a high level block diagram is provided of an apparatus configured for abnormal behavior tracking which implements a database having time dependent tables in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having at least one processor and a memory. The memory stores abnormal behavior tracking module that is configured to monitor abnormal behavior related to computer applications such as abnormal access to secure application data abnormal actions taken via the applications or the like. The abnormal behavior tracking module of the present invention is especially suited for use in a business environment in which users such as employees associates or the like have access to secure data. For the purposes of this invention users can also refer to non human entities such as network devices or other applications. One such example of a business environment is a financial institution in which employee associates readily have access to secure customer data and have the capability to perform predetermined actions which may be restricted forbidden or otherwise illegal. The predetermined actions that are monitored and tracked will vary based on the entity implementing the abnormal behavior tracking module .

Abnormal behavior tracking module includes services sub module which is configured to receive or otherwise collect first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications. In specific embodiments of the invention the abnormal tracking module integrates or otherwise interfaces with the predetermined applications such that user access to secure data or user performance of a predetermined action triggers automatic electronic notification of the event to the services sub module of the abnormal behavior tracking module . Additionally the services sub module may be configured to transform reformat or otherwise process the first and second data for subsequent analytical analysis which determines whether the access to the secure data or the predetermined action rises to the level of an abnormal behavior.

In addition abnormal behavior tracking module includes a database that stores the first data and the second data. The database includes tables which are associated with a specific predetermined period of time for receiving the data. For example each table is associated with a specific calendar month and the first and second data that is received during the associated month is stored in corresponding month s table . By providing for tables which are associated with a specific period of time scalability of the database is achieved and better automated management of data purge data back up and data recovery can be realized.

Additionally abnormal behavior tracking module includes analytics sub module that is configured to determine abnormal behavior based on a comparison of first data to abnormal access criteria and a comparison of second data to abnormal action criteria . The abnormal access criteria and abnormal action criteria may take into account what is normal access or action for a specific user or what is normal access or action for a user s peers i.e. employees associates in the same or similar role or having the same or similar job responsibilities . Normal access or activity takes into account user responsibilities job role responsibilities other factors that create a need to access secure data or perform an activity and the like. In addition the first and second data being used to determine abnormal behaviors takes into account access or action trends or patterns exhibited by a user of a period of time. Once an abnormal behavior is generated notification may automatically be communicated to designated parties to notify the same of the need to further investigate the abnormal behavior .

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown that interfaces with any resident programs such as abnormal behavior tracking module or the like stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor may include various processing subsystems not shown embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the computing device on a network. For example processing subsystems may allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices.

As previously noted in relation to the memory stores abnormal behavior tracking module that is configured to monitor abnormal behavior related to computer applications such as abnormal access to secure application data abnormal actions taken via the applications or the like. Abnormal behavior tracking module includes services sub module which is configured to receive or otherwise collect first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications. In addition abnormal behavior tracking module includes a database that stores the first data and the second data. The database includes tables which are associated with a specific predetermined period of time for receiving the data. For example each table is associated with a specific calendar month and the first and second data that is received during the associated month is stored in the corresponding month s table .

In additional embodiments of the apparatus the database of abnormal behavior tracking module includes a file system having file directories which are associated with a specific period of time for receiving the data. For example each file directory is associated with a specific date and the first and second data that is received during the associated date is stored in the corresponding date s file directory . By providing for file directories which are associated with a specific period of time scalability of the database is achieved and better automated management of data purge data back up and data recovery can be realized.

Additionally alternate embodiments of apparatus provide for abnormal behavior tracking module to include table file generation routine which is configured to automatically generate a new table or a new file directory based on occurrence of a new predetermined time period such as a new calendar month for generation of a new table and a new date for generation of a new file directory . Automatic generation of the new table and new file directory provides for tables and file directories to be generated on the fly without the need for manual intervention.

In addition alternate embodiments of apparatus provide for data purge routine that is configured to automatically purge data from database based on a predetermined required storage time . For example if the predetermined required storage time is two years the data purge routine may be configured to purge on a daily basis the file directory that is more than two years old. Similarly the data purge routine may be configured to purge on a monthly basis the table that is more than two years old. Automated purging of data from database assures that the data is properly purged and that the predetermined required storage time is always maintained.

Additionally in other alternate embodiments of apparatus the abnormal behavior tracking module may include data back up routing that is configured to automatically back up data from database based on a predetermined required back up time . For example the predetermined back up time for file directories may be daily and the predetermined back up time for tables may be monthly. In specific embodiments of the invention storage requirements may exist such that data is made available online for a prescribed period for example two year and is stored offline for an additional prescribed period for example three years. Automated backing up of data from database assures that the data is properly backed up in the event that data in the database becomes corrupt deleted or otherwise in accessible.

As previously noted abnormal behavior tracking module includes analytics sub module that is configured to determine abnormal behavior of employees associates based on a comparison of first data to abnormal access criteria and a comparison of second data to abnormal action criteria . In addition to monitoring the behavior of employees associates in regards to accessing secure data and performing predetermined actions via applications in alternate embodiments of the present invention the abnormal behavior tracking module may be additionally configured to monitor the access of users of the abnormal tracking module otherwise referred to as module administrators and or the performance of actions by users of the abnormal tracking module . First and second data may include data that is secure or provide for access to secured data as such a need exists to further protect secure data and or monitor the actions taken by users of the abnormal tracking module . By monitoring the access that users are provided to the abnormal behavior tracking module and or the actions performed by users on the abnormal behavior tracking module protection is afforded against module users obtaining secure data or access to secure data from the abnormal behavior module as opposed to from one of the enterprise business applications.

Turning the reader s attention to a block diagram is depicted of apparatus in which the abnormal behavior tracking module includes a data attribute tracking routine in accordance with alternate embodiments of the present invention. The data attribute tracking routine is configured to automatically track first data attributes related to the first data and second data attributes related to the second data . The first and second data attributes are associated with one or more of the quality of the data the quantity of the data the origin of the data or any other attribute data as required by the entity implementing module . The data attributes may be stored in database shown in or in separate database.

Data attributes associated with the quality of the data may include but are not limited to the volume of first and second data being stored in database versus the total volume of first and second data received the volume of first and second data being rejected the reason for rejecting first and or second data and the like. Data attributes associated with the quality of data provide for assessing and monitoring module performance and provide for an indication of a need to address performance issues.

Data attributes associated with the quantity of data may include but are not limited to the overall volume of first and or second data received over a predetermined time period the volume of first and or second data received from or associated with a specific application the volume of first and second data associated with a specific associate employee or group of employees associates and the like.

Data attributes associated with the origin of the data may include the application associated with the first or second data the physical or network location where the application was located the delivery path for receiving the first or second data the delivery mechanism for receiving the first or second data when the first or second data was delivered how the data was stored when received and the like. In certain instances such as when the data is subsequently used for evidentiary purposes in a legal proceeding or the like the origin of the data and related information is necessary for proving the authenticity of the data.

Additionally abnormal behavior tracking module may include report generation routine which is configured to automatically or at the bequest of a module user generate data attribute reports that are electronically communicated to designated individuals or entities within the business enterprise.

In embodiments in which a specified application which is being monitored for access to secure data or performance of specified actions implements web services for delivery of first data or second data to the abnormal behavior tracking module the authentication credentials may be internally generated by the application. Prior to delivery of first or second data the application communicates the authentication credentials to the validation module which in turn validates the application for delivery via web services.

In embodiments in which a specified application which is being monitored for access to secure data or performance of specified actions implements message queuing MQ for delivery of first or second data to the abnormal behavior tracking module the authentication credentials may be pre registered by an application owner. In such embodiments the abnormal behavior tracking module may include a registration user interface not depicted in which provides for the application owner or another entity affiliated with the application to register the application prior to data delivery. Registration may include but is not limited to information on how data is to be delivered how often data is to be delivered what kind of data is to be delivered the types of actions that are to be monitored and other related information. Registered information serves as the authentication credentials such that when data is received from a message queue the validation routine will determine the origin of the data the means be which the data was delivered and the like and compare the determined features to the registered information for the purpose of validating the application.

Referring to a flow diagram is presented of a method for abnormal behavior tracking implementing a database having time dependent table in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. At Event first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications is received or otherwise collected. In specific embodiments of the invention the abnormal behavior tracking mechanism integrates or otherwise interfaces with the predetermined applications such that access to secure data or performance of a predetermined action triggers automatic electronic notification of the event. As previously noted accessing of secure data and or performing a predetermined action may be performed by a human such as an associate employee or by a non human entity such as a specific device or application.

At Event the first and second data are stored in a database that is configured to store the data in a specified table based on a predetermined time period associated with the receipt of the data. In specific embodiments of the method the predetermined time period is a calendar month or the like. As such in further embodiments the method may include automatically generating and deploying a new table based on the occurrence of a new predetermined time period such as occurrence of a new calendar month or the like.

Additionally in other embodiments of the method the first and second data are stored in a file system which is configured to store the first and second data in a specified file directory based on a date associated with the receipt of the data. In related embodiments the method may also include purging a specified table and or file directory from the database or file system based on a predetermined time period for purging and the time period or date associated with the table or specified file directory. Moreover the method may include communicate the stored first and second data to a back up database which is configured to store the first and second data for a predetermined period of time.

At Event one or more abnormal behaviors are determined based on comparing the first data to abnormal access criteria and or comparing the second data to abnormal action criteria. The abnormal access criteria and abnormal action criteria may take into account what is normal access or action for a specific user device or application or what is normal access or action for a user s peers i.e. employees associates in the same or similar role or having the same or similar job responsibilities similar devices and or similar applications. Normal access or activity takes into account user responsibilities job role responsibilities other factors that create a need to access secure data or perform an activity and the like. In addition the first and second data being used to determine abnormal behaviors takes into account access or action trends or patterns exhibited by a user of a period of time. In additional embodiments of the method once an abnormal behavior is generated notification may automatically be communicated to designated parties to notify the same of the need to further investigate the abnormal behavior.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for abnormal behavior tracking including tracking data attributes in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications is received or otherwise collected. In specific embodiments of the invention the abnormal behavior tracking mechanism integrates or otherwise interfaces with the predetermined applications such that access to secure data or performance of a predetermined action triggers automatic electronic notification of the event. As previously noted accessing of secure data and or performing a predetermined action may be performed by a human such as an associate employee or by a non human entity such as a specific device or application. The first and second data is subsequently implemented to determine one or more abnormal behaviors by comparing the first data to abnormal access criteria and or comparing the second data to abnormal action criteria.

At Event first data attributes related to the first data and second data attributes related to the second data are automatically tracked. The data attributes are associated with at least one of data origin data quantity data quality or the like.

Data attributes associated with the origin of the data may include 1 the application associated with the first or second data 2 the physical or network location where the application is executed 3 the delivery path for receiving the first or second data 4 the delivery mechanism for receiving the first or second data 5 when the data was delivered 6 how the data was stored when received and the like. In certain instances such as when the data is subsequently used for evidentiary purposes in a legal proceeding or the like the origin of the data and related information is necessary for proving the authenticity of the data.

Data attributes associated with the quantity of data may include but are not limited to 1 the overall volume of first and or second data received over a predetermined time period 2 the volume of first and or second data received from or associated with a specific application 3 the volume of first and second data associated with a specific associate employee or group of employees associates or device application and the like.

Data attributes associated with the quality of the data may include but are not limited to 1 the volume of first and second data being stored in database versus the total volume of first and second data received 2 the volume of first and second data being rejected 3 the reason for rejecting first and or second data and the like. Data attributes associated with the quality of data provide for assessing and monitoring module performance and provide for an indication of a need to address performance issues.

At Event one or more reports are automatically generated and communicated to identified individuals or entities. The reports indicate performance of the abnormal behavior tracking system based on the tracked attributes. In additional embodiments of the method the data attributes associated with the origin of the data may be required for evidentiary purposes to verify the authenticity of the data or the like.

At Event first data related to accessing secure information via predetermined applications and second data related to performing predetermined actions via predetermined applications is received or otherwise collected based on the validation.

Thereafter data from the staging database A is processed and transferred to the abnormal behavior tracking reporting databases B. The processing and transfer may include detecting for duplication processing where duplicative information is flagged or deleted and correlation of rules for activities based upon events using for example a correlation engine . According to exemplary implementations additional processing can be performed upon storing in the abnormal behavior tracking reporting databases B including but not limited to statistical calculations for standard deviation and standard error and providing reports for application and business units wherein detail access information is stored information is aggregated into an OLAP OnLine Analytical Process cube and finally the aggregated data and statistically calculated information is provided for reporting cross tabulation and automated alerting .

In the example of the method implemented in the network includes at Event monitoring information related to activities of a plurality of users e.g. associated employees devices applications or the like accessing specified secure data via an application or performing specified application actions at Event determining whether the user accessed the specified secure data or performed the specified action at Event receiving and storing the information i.e. first data or second data related to the activities of the accessing the specified secure data or performing specified actions at Event determining if the accessing of the secure data or performing of the actions are abnormal behavior and at Event generating and communicating a notification indicating that an abnormal behavior has occurred.

Exemplary implementations of the present invention provide for monitoring that comprises recording for instances of accessing specified data and or performing specified action any one or combination of data including the time of the access action application identifier user identification and device hardware identifier. The data is recorded each time that a user views the specified secure data logs into a registered application logs out of the registered application changes application privileges or attempts and fails to log into the registered application.

According to further exemplary implementations monitoring includes monitoring a data stream relating to the activities of user s accessing the specified data and optionally measuring the information related to activities of the user s accessing the specified data. For example the measured information can be related to activities at the application layer.

In the case where it may be desirable to provide notification of abnormal behavior related to accessing secure data or performing a specified action an alert for example visual audible or both can be generated for example in conjunction with a report indicating that an abnormal behavior has occurred. According to exemplary implementations of the present invention the alert can comprise any one or a combination of a real time alert an indicator indicating that the at least one user has incurred abnormal behavior a post event i.e. accessing of secure data or performing specified action report including information regarding the event or indication of actions taken during the event. Furthermore the alerts e.g. format and or method of delivery thereof can be customized to address specific needs of the system and environment where it is deployed.

In addition rules can be implemented for monitoring to determine if an access has occurred or if a specified action has occurred. In specific embodiments such rules can include a set of parameters indicative of the information or type of access to be monitored. Further such rules may provide for event logging structure and methodology formatting the look and content of data maintaining e.g. re formatting and or deleting of the specified data detecting duplication of selected data and data delivery. Furthermore any of the rules can be customized to address specific needs of the system and environment where it is deployed and can also be customized to be data content specific.

Determining if access or a specified action is abnormal behavior can be based on rules for measuring access to the specified data or performing the specified actions. The rules can be peer based rules or rules specific to the user based on historical access or performance of actions.

Any notifications such as alerts report and the like generated when an anomalous behavior is determined can be customized for example to be generated at specified times and provide specified content.

Methodology according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention is also customizable for implementation at any application. Further monitoring of access to specified data includes remote or local access by either a human operator or a machine enabled system.

As shown in an exemplary system monitors access to specified secure data and performance of specified actions in a distributed computing network the system comprising a recorder for recording information indicative of access activity to specified application related data or performance of specified action for a plurality users accessing specified data from any one of exemplary systems . The system provides a storage for retaining gathered access activity i.e. first data or action activity i.e. second data information and an analyzer for analyzing access activity information or action activity data to determine if an abnormal behavior has occurred. Further the system may include a notifier for generating a real time notification alarm and or historical report s including information indicative of an abnormal behavior.

According to exemplary implementations of the present invention access activity can include any one of creating reading changing or deleting of specified data. Conversely access activity information can comprise information related to the data that was accessed who or what device accessed the data when the data was accessed and indication of rule s examples of which are described above that were used for measuring access activity.

As shown in at Event access activity information of specified secure data and or specified actions is recorded S and at Event the information is received and stored for subsequent evaluation or evidentiary purposes. At Event the recorded information is analyzed to evaluate access activity of a user or the actions of the user and determine at Decision whether the user has incurred abnormal behavior. Subsequently at Decision a determination is made a notification of abnormal behavior is necessary based on the determination at Event . If a notification is necessary at Event a real time or historic for example previously scheduled notification can be selectively generated including information indicative of access activity to specified secure data or performance of a specified action. Likewise a report comprising information indicative of the access activity to specified data can be generated according to a specified or a default format.

A. External Web Customer Accesses Specified Secure Data or Performs a Specified Action Using a Web Site

According to an exemplary implementation having created the XML document the Web application executed on web server can transfer that document to one of the abnormal behavior servers via the Internet Protocol IP redirector . The abnormal behavior tracking server is exposed via an IP redirection as a single virtual service in one or more designated service centers. Subsequently the XML document may be stored in the abnormal behavior database . According to implementations of the present invention the analytic component can be decoupled from the real time abnormal behavior tracking data stream or can be adapted to have the analytic components plug into the real time abnormal behavior tracking data stream.

Using abnormal behavior tracking fixed format text data definition the underwriter application s background thread creates a fixed format text document that identifies the customer s secure data that was sent to the credit bureau. The fixed format text document also identifies who and what accessed the abnormal behavior tracking information. The underwriting application specifies the assigned number representing its own name as the ApplicationNumber field and a number identifying which component of the application accessed the customer secure data information is recorded as the ApplicationSubsectionNumber field. The user field includes the credit bureau s name. The underwriting application specifies the underwriter s desktop computer name and IP address in the MachineName and IPAddress fields. The underwriting application specifies the time that the customer s secure data was sent to the credit bureau in the DateTimeAccessed field and specifies the underwriter s time zone in the UTCTimeOffset field.

Having created the fixed format text document the underwriting application transfers the document via a reliable delivery service of the application developer s choosing to a destination file directory on a designated abnormal behavior tracking server via IP redirector . An abnormal behavior tracking server instance will take the fixed format text files received in that destination file directory and persist that data into the abnormal behavior tracking database .

Using the anomalous behavior tracking delimited text data definition the loan origination application s background thread adds a line to the delimited text document that identifies the customer s secure data and financial credit worthiness which the loan origination application received from the credit bureau. The delimited text document also must identify who and what accessed the anomalous behavior tracking information. The loan origination application specifies the assigned number representing its own name as the ApplicationNumber field and a number identifying which application component accessed the customer secure data information is recorded as the ApplicationSubsectionNumber field. The User field includes the credit bureau s name. The loan origination application running as a Windows service records its server name and IP address in the MachineName and IPAddress fields. The loan origination application specifies the time that it received the customer s secure data and financial credit worthiness from the credit bureau in the DateTimeAccessed field. The loan origination application records the Windows service server s time zone in the UTCTimeOffset field. The Windows service can choose to send batch data either at regular intervals by time or by number of lines . Having created the delimited text data document the Windows service transfers the document via a reliable delivery service of the application developer s choosing for example File Transfer Protocol FTP or Secure File Transfer Protocol SFTP to a destination incoming shared file directory on a designated anomalous behavior tracking server via IP redirector . An anomalous behavior tracking service instance will take the delimited text files received in that destination file directory and persist the data into the anomalous behavior tracking database via an anomalous behavior tracking web server .

According to exemplary implementations of the present invention there are two different forms of batching abnormal behavior tracking data. The first form of batching abnormal behavior tracking data collects multiple separate accesses to the same customer s secure data information. For example an application may access the customer s name and address fields once but phone and credit card information several times each. This is termed single customer multiple data field access. The second form of batching abnormal behavior tracking data collects access to multiple customers data. For example an application which creates monthly mortgage statements will access secure data information for many many customers. This is termed multiple customer access. The two forms can occur individually and in combination. For instance an application that repackages loans for resale could deal with several customers loans in a single package perhaps accessing each customer s address and phone numbers several times. In this case the software application would need to log both multiple customer access and single customer multiple data field access.

According to exemplary implementations of the present invention if an application allows any secure data or specified information to be transmitted or exposed to a user business partner or other application then that application must create a record log entry in abnormal behavior tracking for each access of each customer s data. The log entry must indicate which customer data was accessed. Metadata of when and how often any application accesses the following secure data elements and which secure data elements were accessed are maintained in the abnormal behavior tracking records including actual data. Client applications will be insulated from evolving data formats by using the client application programming interface API .

Any individual access to the secure data or specified data for a specific customer will include some or all of these data items. For instance a loan underwriting application will probably access all secure data or specified data. That application will log all the abnormal behavior tracking data items.

The above described exemplary embodiments of an apparatus system and method in computer readable media include program instructions to implement various operations embodied by a computer. The media may also include alone or in combination with the program instructions data files data structures and the like. The media and program instructions may be those specially designed and constructed for the purposes of the present invention or they may be of the kind well known and available to those having skill in the computer software arts. Examples of computer readable media include magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks and DVD magneto optical media such as optical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory and the like. The media may also be a transmission medium such as optical or metallic lines wave guides and so on including a carrier wave transmitting signals specifying the program instructions data structures and so on. Examples of program instructions include both machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that may be executed by the computer using an interpreter. The described hardware devices may be configured to act as one or more software modules in order to perform the operations of the above described embodiments of the present invention.

Thus methods apparatus and computer program products have been described that provide for computer network security and more specifically monitoring application based access to secure data and monitoring predetermined actions conducted on the applications to determine abnormal access or abnormal actions. Specific embodiments of the invention provide for an improved database for storing the monitored data. The database implements time period structured tables and file directories which increases the data storage and provides for automated data purging backing up of data and data recovery. Additional embodiments provide for tracking data attributes related to the monitored data such as the quality of the monitored data the quality of the monitored data and the origin of the monitored data. In addition embodiments provide for validating the source of the monitored data to assure that data is received from a valid application.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other embodiment unless stated otherwise.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

