---

title: System and method for communicating data between an application server and an M2M device
abstract: Systems and methods for communication data between an application server and at least one machine-to-machine (M2M) device via an internet network and a network are provided. An example system includes a network element configured to schedule delivery of the data between the application server and at least one M2M device based on network information. The network element is located on a boundary between the network and the intern et network to which the application server communicates with the at least one M2M device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071925&OS=09071925&RS=09071925
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 09071925
owner_city: Boulogne-Billancourt
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20110105
---
Wireless networks are increasingly used for communication to a large number of machine devices such as sensors and consumer electronics devices in addition to smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs and computers resulting in an explosion of different applications. Many of these applications have a requirement to send content asynchronously from the network to the battery operated devices in a secure manner. Examples include pushing price information to smart meters in a demand response system or sending push notifications to applications running on a smart phone to inform the client application on the device about new information available in the network.

Currently these applications communicate to their devices without any knowledge of network status or the status of the device in the network. Network status includes information about what parts of the network are congested at a given time policies of the operator with regards to the preferred times and methods for message pushes and access control policies concerning who is allowed to access the device. Device status includes aspects such as device location device registration to the network and device wake up times. Furthermore applications have to set up security keys and perform end to end encryption to achieve security.

The conventional approach to protecting the wireless network from an unexpected application behavior is simply to invoke overload prevention mechanisms in the network such as blocking through admission control when demands on the network exceed capacity. Application servers also typically provide their own capabilities to push and pull content from the device in an over the top fashion.

Conventional overload mechanisms such as blocking are inefficient because of repeated attempts made by applications to communicate upon blocking. Communication without knowledge of the network and device status is inefficient since it leads to additional resources being consumed both in the network and in the device.

Push and pull content capabilities provided by individual application servers in an over the top fashion also result inefficiencies since an application server does not know the status of the device to which it is sending information leading to repeated transmissions. Furthermore the application cannot simply address the device by a name and has to obtain the network IP address of the device before initiating communication. When there is a need to send the same information to a large number of devices the application has to initiate individual sessions with each of the devices. Additionally complex mechanisms will be needed for securing the communication such as using public key cryptography.

In light of one or more of these inefficiencies examples of system and method for communicating data between an application server and at least one machine to machine M2M device via an internet network and a network is provided.

One example system includes a network element configured to schedule delivery of the data between the application server and at least one M2M device based on network information. The network element may be located on a boundary between the network and the internet network to which the application server communicates with the at least one M2M device.

The network information may include network congestion information indicating an amount of data congestion in the network or status information of the at least one M2M device in the network or a combination thereof. The status information may include location status information indicating a location of the at least one M2M device operating status information indicating an operational condition of the at least one M2M device connection status information indicating a connection condition of the at least one M2M device to the network battery status information indicating battery power of the at least one M2M device or a combination thereof.

The system may further include a network monitoring element configured to monitor the network information where the network element is configured to receive the network information from the network monitoring element for the scheduling of data transfer.

The network element may schedule delivery of the data based on the network information and policy information. The policy information may include at least one of control policy information network operator policy information and application provider policy information. The control policy information may include identity information indicative of authorization of the at least one M2M device and application server to transmit or receive the data in the system the network operator policy information may include a location specific restriction for the at least one M2M device and the application provider policy information may include notification of registration of the at least M2M device in the network.

The network element may be configured to deliver the data by establishing a first session between the at least one M2M device and the network element according to a first protocol and establishing a second session between the network element and the application server according to a second protocol. In this embodiment the network element receives the data from the application server and delivers the data to the at least one M2M device via the first and second sessions according to the scheduled delivery time.

In another embodiment the network element may schedule delivery of the data by transmitting a control signal including scheduling information to the at least one M2M device or the application server and based on the control signal the data is delivered from the application server to the at least one M2M device or vice versa without the data being pass through the network element.

Other embodiments also provide a network element for scheduling data to be transmitted between an application server and at least one machine to machine M2M device via an internet network and a network. The network element may include a session protocol communication unit configured to initiate a first session between the network element and the at least one M2M device according to a first protocol and initiate a second session between the network element and the application server according to a second protocol a data storage unit configured to temporarily store the data until delivery and a scheduling unit configured to receive network information concerning the network and schedule delivery of the data between the application server and at least one M2M device via the first and second sessions based on network information.

The network information may include network congestion information indicating an amount of data congestion in the network or status information of the at least one M2M device in the network or a combination thereof. The status information may include location status information indicating a location of the at least one M2M device operating status information indicating an operational condition of the at least one M2M device connection status information indicating a connection condition of the at least one M2M device to the network battery status information indicating battery power of the at least one M2M device or a combination thereof.

The scheduling unit may receive the network information from a network monitoring element for the scheduling of data transfer. Also the scheduling unit may schedule delivery of the data based on the network information and policy information. The policy information may include at least one of control policy information network operator policy information and application provider policy information. In one embodiment the control policy information may include identity information indicative of authorization of the at least one M2M device and application server to transmit or receive the data in the system the network operator policy information may include a location specific restriction for the at least one M2M device and the application provider policy information may include notification of registration of the at least one M2M device in the network.

In one embodiment the session protocol communication unit is configured to deliver the data to the at least one M2M device via the first and second sessions according to the scheduled delivery time.

Other embodiments provide a method for communicating data between an application server and at least one machine to machine M2M device via an internet network and a network. An example method includes receiving a push notification request from the application server to be delivered to a set of M2M devices receiving network information from a network monitoring element and scheduling delivery of the push notification request based on the network information.

The method may also include verifying the application server against policy information to ensure that the application server is authorized to transmit the push notification request and translating the push notification request from an application server protocol to a wireless network protocol specific to the M2M devices.

The network information may include network congestion information indicating an amount of data congestion in the network or status information of the at least one M2M device in the network or a combination thereof. The status information may include location status information indicating a location of at least one M2M device operating status information indicating an operational condition of the at least one M2M device connection status information indicating a connection condition of the at least one M2M device to the network battery status information indicating battery power of the at least one M2M device or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the method may schedule delivery of the push notification based on policy information. The policy information may include at least one of control policy information network operator policy information and application provider policy information.

Various example embodiments will now be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some example embodiments are shown. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout the description of the figures.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of example embodiments. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of example embodiments. As used herein the singular fog ins a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions acts noted may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two figures shown in succession may in fact be executed concurrently or may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which example embodiments belong. It will be further understood that terms e.g. those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

In the following description illustrative embodiments will be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations e.g. in the fat in of flowcharts that may be implemented as program modules or functional processes that include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that when executed perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types and may be implemented using existing hardware at existing network elements. Such existing hardware may include one or more Central Processing Units CPUs digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays FPGAs computers or the like machines that once programmed become particular machines.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise or as is apparent from the discussion terms such as acquiring or determining or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

One embodiment provides a system and method for communicating data between an application server and at least one machine to machine M2M device via an internet network and a communication network. For example the system may include a network element that provides network aware advanced connectivity services for application servers to connect to their M2M devices. The network element provides transparent communication management for M2M devices and applications and adapts the service provider s network for the increased growth of connected device traffic.

The network is connected to an application server via the internet network . The application server may be any type of server that includes a processor memory and software application. Although only one application server is illustrated in example embodiments may encompass any number of application servers connected to the network . The system may also include other components that are well known for the transfer of data from the network to an internet based application server or vice versa such as an application programming interface API and an application exposure framework AES for example. The application server transmits requests for information and or response messages to the network according to any type of standard response request protocol used to transfer data in an internet based system such as HTTP or REST exposed through the AES.

The M2M devices may be any type of device that captures an event such as temperature inventory level etc. for example which is relayed through the network and the internet network to the application server . Also the M2M devices may transmit or receive status notifications messages containing information or any other type of data. The M2M devices may include any type of wireless wired device such as monitoring devices e.g. sensors consumer electronics devices smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs and computers for example.

One embodiment provides a network element on a boundary between the network and the internet network to which the application server communicates with the M2M devices . The network element schedules data transfer between the application server and the M2M devices based on network information and or policy information. For example the application server may transmit a request to send or obtain information or messages from specific M2M devices with appropriate policy information pre configured or sent together with the information such as when the message has to be delivered or whether an acknowledgement is required or not for example. The network element then schedules delivery of such information based on certain network information. Because the network element takes into account network information when scheduling data transfers the system improves the efficiency of communication networks.

Further in a gateway mode the network element may establish communication sessions between the network element and the M2M devices according to the above identified protocols establish communication sessions between the network element and the application server according to the above identified protocols and transfer the data through the network element at the scheduled delivery time determined by the network element .

Also in a controller mode the network element may schedule delivery of the data by transmitting a control signal including scheduling information to the M2M devices or the application server and the data is delivered from the application server or the M2M devices without the data being passed through the network element based on the control signal. These features are further explained below.

The network element may obtain the network information to be used in scheduling data transfer from a network monitoring element NME . The network element may obtain policy information to be used in scheduling data transfer from the data message itself a storage unit in the network element a separate element or separate elements in the network or the application server or any combination of the above.

The NME may be any type of conventional monitoring element that collects information on the network . The NME obtains network congestion information indicating an amount of data congestion in the network and or status information on each of the M2M devices . The status information may include location status information indicating a location of the M2M devices operating status information indicating whether for example the M2M devices are awake or asleep connection status information indicating whether or not the M2M devices are connected to the network battery status information indicating battery power of the M2M devices or any combination of the above. When the network element receives a request to transfer data between the application server and the M2M devices the network element may obtain the above network information from the NME to be used for scheduling delivery of the data as further explained below.

The policy information includes control policy information network operator policy information application provider policy information or any combination of the above. The control policy information may include identity information that indicates which M2M devices and application servers are authorized to transmit or receive the particular data in the system. The network operator policy information may include one or more location specific restrictions for M2M devices such as when to use 2 G 3 G in the case of duel mode modules a maximum number of simultaneous push pull per geographical region and an appropriate mode of communication to the M2M device when multiple options such as SMS or internet protocol are possible for example. The application provider policy information may include notification when a M2M device is registered in the network notification upon successful push pull notification if the M2M device is failing to register at appropriate times or provide tracking updates when the M2M device is expected to register notification of deviation from expected location notification about under active or over active M2M devices time sensitivity of data push data aggregation policies and or security policies e.g. what entities can access the M2M device data for example.

The network element schedules delivery of the data between the M2M devices and the application server taking into account such network information and policy information . For example the network element may ensure a particular M2M device is at a specific location for sending or gathering information if the policy information dictates such a restriction. Also the network element may verify against the control policy information indicating which application servers and users are allowed to send or gather information from the M2M devices and ensuring that the requesting application server is allowed to communicate with the M2M device .

Further the network element may obtain network congestion information on the network from the NME and schedule the initiation of sessions to the M2M devices in a manner that meets application requirements while minimizing the impact on the network . For example when there is a need to broadcast to a large number of M2M devices in a large region the network element may schedule simultaneous sessions to a small number of devices in different sub regions and sequentially cover the M2M devices within each sub region.

Also depending on a level of urgency or priority the network element may wake up a sleeping M2M device through an alternate technology such as SMS and then establish the communication session if the session cannot be established from the network directly. In another embodiment the network element may hold the message until the M2M device wakes up and performs a network registration and then establish the communication session upon such an event. Further the network element may use battery status information to determine when to establish the communication link to the M2M device .

The scheduling unit may be configured to receive the network information from the NME and to receive the policy information and schedule delivery of the data between the application server and the M2M devices via a communication session established by the session protocol communication unit . The data storage unit is configured to temporally store the data until delivery and includes the capabilities of storing a portion or all of the policy information . As such the scheduling unit would obtain the policy information from the data storage unit to be used in the scheduling of the data transfer. Otherwise the scheduling unit obtains the policy information from the data itself or another network element storing such policy information.

The session protocol communication unit is configured to initiate communication sessions to facilitate the data transfer between the M2M devices and the application server . For instance the session protocol communication unit is configured to initiate communication sessions between the network element and each of the M2M devices according one of the above protocols in order to provide an interface between the network element and the M2M devices . Also the session protocol communication unit is configured to initiate communication sessions between the network element and the application server according one of the above protocols in order to provide an interface between the network element and the application server . Further the session protocol communication unit translates the data from an application server protocol to a wireless network protocol specific to the M2M devices or vice versa .

After the network element schedules delivery of the data based on the network information and or the policy information the network element may operate in gateway mode or controller mode to facilitate the transfer of data. In the gateway mode the network element receives a request for information via the communication session established by the session protocol communication unit and the network element directly transfers the request to either the M2M devices or the application server via the other communication session established by the session protocol communication unit .

In step S the application server initiates the push notification to the network element . For example the application server provisions an M2M device through the API with relevant connectivity information. In step the application server transmits the request to send a push notification to a set of M2M devices . In S the network element schedules delivery of the push notification. For example the network element verifies the request against the policy information to ensure that the application server is authorized to transmit the push notification request and receives network information from the NME and schedules delivery of the push notification based on the network information and the policy information . Also the network element translates the push notification from an application server protocol to a wireless network protocol specific to the M2M devices .

In step the network element directly delivers the push notification to the M2M devices through the network via the established communication channel. In step the network element sends back a notification upon updating the M2M devices with the relevant information.

The network element schedules the delivery of data between the application server and the M2M device using the network information from the NME and the policy information . However in the controller mode the network element transmits one or more control signals to at least one of the application server and the M2M device in order to control when the application server may transmit the data directly to the M2M device or vice versa via communication session established by the communication protocol unit without the data being passed through the network element . The control signal s includes notification and or scheduling information on when either the application server or the M2M device should transmit the data.

For messages that are pushed from the M2M devices to the application server the network element may provide notification to the M2M device when the application server has requested the information and or when the application server is ready to receive the information. By implementing the network element software layer on the operating system of the M2M device and network element software layer on the application server repeated requests to connect to the network by the application server can be filtered and rejected until the control signal s are received from the network element . With this approach the network is protected without modification to the device application.

Applications will continue to function through the network element software layer which holds or rejects requests from the application layer until the network element provides a notification that the application server is ready for communication with the M2M device . For example suppose the application server is not functional e.g. system is down . Without the network element the application client on the M2M device will periodically attempt to set up a connection to the application server without success. Each connection attempt by the M2M device results in usage of wireless air interface resources to set up communication channels over the air interface in order to transmit the data packets between the M2M device and the application server . With the network element the network element software layer in the M2M device requests that the network element notify the M2M device when the application server is functional again. Until such a notification is received from the network element via the control signal s the network element prevents air interface connection set up even if the application attempts to establish the connection. The network element software layer operates as a local proxy for the network application in the M2M device and as the device proxy for the application server . Also any network operator policy information regarding communication between the M2M device and the network can be enforced by transmitting policy information from the network element to the network element software layer in the application server and the M2M device . In this embodiment the data traffic itself does not pass through the network element .

In a particular example when the application server queries a Domain Name Server DNS to reach the M2M device the address and port number on the network element specific to the M2M device can be provided through DNS redirection. When the application server establishes a session with the M2M device using the address obtained from the DNS the session is actually established through the network element . The network element can then connect to the appropriate M2M device by obtaining the address from the access network that assigned the address. However in some cases the network element itself may be assigning the address. In this way the presence of the network element may be transparent to the application server .

Variations of the example embodiments are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the example embodiments and all such variations as would be apparent to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this disclosure.

