---

title: Programmatically enabling user access to CRM secured field instances based on secured field instance settings
abstract: Access to customer relationship management (CRM) secured field instances is enabled based on field settings. A requester's identity determines action paths to be executed in order to enable access to fields. A client application's user privileges are inherited to enable access to secured fields. Such access through a granted privilege is provided through an API intermediating inheritance of user's privileges from client application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805882&OS=08805882&RS=08805882
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08805882
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110120
---
Customer Relationship Management CRM solutions provide tools and capabilities needed to create and maintain a clear picture of customers from first contact through purchase and post sales. For complex organizations a CRM system may provide features and capabilities to help improve the way sales marketing and or customer service organizations target new customers manage marketing campaigns and drive sales activities. CRM systems may include many components hardware and software utilized individually or in a shared manner by users internal or external to the organization.

Access to CRM records may be limited by CRM system s restrictive access settings. Client applications requesting access to CRM records may be limited by CRM system configuration and service complexities such as stored private information user roles and organizational restrictions. Protection of secured records containing private information may override client application access needs. Organizational policies may limit user privileges on client side deployments limiting access to CRM services. Client deployments may lack sufficient security policies necessary to establish secured communications with CRM services running off site.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to exclusively identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to programmatically enabling a user to access customer relation management CRM secured field instances based on secured field instance settings. According to some embodiments a CRM application may determine an identity of a user requesting a record. The CRM application may determine an action path to user access based on secured field settings on the record. The application may enable the user to access the field by executing the action path.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory and do not restrict aspects as claimed.

As briefly described above user access to customer relation management CRM secured fields for record instances that he have access to may be programmatically enabled based on secured field instance setting. According to some embodiments a CRM application may determine the identity of a user requesting a record. The requesting user may not have access to certain records due to security roles but may be granted access through sharing of those records and may not have access to certain secured fields on a record but can be granted access through sharing of specific fields on specific records. The CRM application according to embodiments may determine whether the user has global access to a secured field instance. Upon determining user s access level the CRM application may select an action path based on field settings. The application may enable the user to access the secured field instance by executing the path. In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustrations specific embodiments or examples. These aspects may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

While the embodiments will be described in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with an application program that runs on an operating system on a computing device those skilled in the art will recognize that aspects may also be implemented in combination with other program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and comparable computing devices. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Embodiments may be implemented as a computer implemented process method a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage medium readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program that comprises instructions for causing a computer or computing system to perform example process es . The computer readable storage medium can for example be implemented via one or more of a volatile computer memory a non volatile memory a hard drive a flash drive a floppy disk or a compact disk and comparable storage media.

Throughout this specification the term platform may be a combination of software and hardware components for providing CRM services and data or similar environment where embodiments may be implemented. Examples of platforms include but are not limited to a hosted service executed over a plurality of servers an application executed on a single server and comparable systems. The term server generally refers to a computing device executing one or more software programs typically in a networked environment. However a server may also be implemented as a virtual server software programs executed on one or more computing devices viewed as a server on the network. More detail on these technologies and example operations is provided below.

The servers may be associated with a CRM application communicating with the clients through a variety of protocols an example of which may be the Hyper Text Transport Protocol HTTP . The CRM application may also provide services to accommodate organization specific customer service applications to provide content to users. An example of such services may be providing secured fields data such as credit card numbers and unsecured fields data such as client contact information. Additionally a CRM application may enable a user to access services through multiple client devices e.g. client or multiple users to access the same service simultaneously e.g. clients .

In an embodiment the server may provide customer service by hosting one or customer service applications. The customer service applications may provide CRM secured fields to client applications. An example of such services may be an inventory system. Other examples may include general information services such as sales marketing reports and comparable ones. Yet other examples may include personnel information transmitted through secured communications via encryption or similar methods such as patient health records customer payment records etc. Role based security allows users to see a specific entity type the record based security allows users to see individual records and finally field level security allows users to see specific fields.

In an example scenario a requester such as a customer service server or a user may request access to record fields on a CRM application running on a CRM server. The CRM application may determine the identity of the requester and determine the requester s access level status. Upon the determination the CRM application may select an action path based on the settings of the CRM field instance. And the application may enable the requester to access the requested field by executing the action path.

To grant modify and or revoke access to a secured field instance without global access to secured field a regular Create Update and or Delete application programming interfaces APIs may be used on the POAA. A Create API may be used for granting access to a secured field instance. An Update API may be used to modify access to a secured field instance. A Delete API may be used to revoke access from a secured field instance.

The POAA entity may enable the CRM application to determine whether the requesting user has read access in a client application. An example may be by adding a field in select query to select list with a join condition on a POAA table containing granted user access information.

According to some embodiments fields of a POAA entity table may include a security principal e.g. user or team the secured field instance and shared access rights of Read or Update. Because sharing of field data can only occur on data that actually exist there may not be a need to support Create sharing of a field. The secured field instance may be defined by a target entity instance identifier instance type and attribute identifier. Custom business logic e.g. plug ins or workflows may modify the contents of POAA table using Create Update and or Delete APIs to enact custom field level security rules for Read or Update APIs on a secured field instance.

Diagram of illustrates some example steps in enabling user access to CRM fields according to embodiments. In decision node the CRM application may determine whether a requested field is secured. A secured field may contain data protecting access to private information. Private information may be in various forms and may include personal information credit card numbers social security numbers SSN and comparable ones.

If the field is not a secured field the CRM application may add a field in select statement to a select list at block to retrieve fields one at a time or in batch. The retrieval may be by a database retrieval method such as a select query or it may be through other methods determined by the field storage mechanism.

If the field is a secured field such as information requiring privacy then the CRM application may apply another decision process to determine the field requesting user s global read access status. The application may determine at decision node whether the user has global read access enabling the user to access all instances of the secured field. If the user has global read access then the retrieval may be granted by adding in select statement to a retrieval list same as the above block .

Alternatively if the user does not have global read access then the CRM application may utilize POAA table to determine the user s read access from the client application at block . Determination of user s read access may be through an implementation dependent field retrieve query. An example retrieval query may look like 

In the above example according to an embodiment an account0 table is queried with a conditional statement to determine a user s read access in the client application. A poaa0 table is utilized to access client application s user privilege fields retrieved from the POAA. And utilizing the granted user access privileges SSN fields are retrieved and returned by the retrieval query.

As shown in diagram upon receiving a write request a CRM application may determine whether a field that a user requested to write or update is secured at decision node . Examples of secured fields may include a variety of forms including private information and write restricted data granting update privileges to only select users. If a field is not secured then the requesting user has privileges to write to it.

Alternatively if a field is secured the CRM application may determine whether the user has global update access privileges within the CRM application at second decision node . The CRM application may determine by matching a requester against and internal user database. If the user has global update rights then the user may be allowed to update a secured field. Update action may be a write action or a delete action. A global access determination may save resources by allowing the write request and stopping additional user authorization.

Upon determining that a user requesting to update a secured field has no global update access at decision node the CRM application may further determine whether the application may inherit user write privileges from a client application through a granted update access at decision node . The determination may be done through POAA to inherit user s write permissions from the client application. The POAA may retrieve user privileges from client applications and inherit the user privileges. An example may be giving a trusted client application and its users read and write access to secured fields. Another example may be giving an untrusted client application only read access to secured fields. Above examples are not exclusionary and other methods may be used by a POAA to determine client application user privilege inheritance.

If the user does not have any granted update access then the CRM application may throw an exception at block . The thrown exception may be used by the CRM application to deny update access. Alternatively the exception may be used for a decision to grant limited update access such as read and write access to secured fields.

In another embodiment the CRM application may group users together and grant read or and update access to groups of users from the same client or different client applications via the POAA. In other embodiments the CRM application may run multiple instances of POAA and grant varying shared user privileges depending on instance needs. An example may be running an instance to view text based data only and enabling read access to client application users to view fields containing only textual data. In yet other embodiments the CRM application may limit shared user privilege based on system resource utilization timed duration and or usage limits.

The systems and implementations of programmatically enabling user access to CRM secured field instances based on field settings discussed above are for illustration purposes and do not constitute a limitation on embodiments. User access to CRM secured field instances may be granted employing other modules processes and configurations using the principles discussed herein.

As discussed above user access to CRM secured field instances may be enabled programmatically based on field settings. If the user requesting access has granted privilege through a client application the POAA may inherit the privilege from the client device . Inheriting the client privilege may give user access to secured fields in the CRM application.

Client devices may enable access to applications executed on remote server s e.g. one of servers as discussed previously. The server s may retrieve or store relevant data from to data store s directly or through database server .

Network s may comprise any topology of servers clients Internet service providers and communication media. A system according to embodiments may have a static or dynamic topology. Network s may include secure networks such as an enterprise network an unsecure network such as a wireless open network or the Internet. Network s may also coordinate communication over other networks such as Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or cellular networks. Furthermore network s may include short range wireless networks such as Bluetooth or similar ones. Network s provide communication between the nodes described herein. By way of example and not limitation network s may include wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Many other configurations of computing devices applications data sources and data distribution systems may be employed to enable user access to CRM fields. Furthermore the networked environments discussed in are for illustration purposes only. Embodiments are not limited to the example applications modules or processes.

Record access service may be part of a service that provides secured and unsecured fields to requesting client applications etc. POAA module may retrieve and inherit user privileges from client application Inherited client application user privileges may be used to grant access to secured fields. This basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example the computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer readable storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer readable storage media may be part of computing device . Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device and comparable input devices. Output device s such as a display speakers printer and other types of output devices may also be included. These devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices. Communication connection s is one example of communication media. Communication media can include therein computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Example embodiments also include methods. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described in this document. One such way is by machine operations of devices of the type described in this document.

Another optional way is for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some. These human operators need not be co located with each other but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program.

Process may begin with operation where a CRM application may determine the identity of a user requesting a field. The user identity may be embedded in the request or alternatively the CRM application may request the user identification from the client application. The identity may be used to determine a profile of the user which may define the user s access privileges.

At operation the CRM application may compare the requesting user s identification profile against a list of registered CRM application users to determine whether the requesting user has global access to CRM fields. Upon determining the user s global access privileges the CRM application may choose an action path to execute based on the user s privileges according to field settings at operation . The settings may be based on multiple factors but rely heavily on whether the requested field is secured or not according to some embodiments. Upon determination of the action path the CRM application may execute the chosen path to enable user access to requested field at operation .

The operations included in process are for illustration purposes. Enabling user access to CRM fields according to embodiments may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional steps as well as in different order of operations using the principles described herein.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the embodiments. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims and embodiments.

