---

title: Search behavior based communication forums
abstract: One or more computing devices may be configured to determine an association between at least a first user and a second user based at least on search behavior of the first user and/or the second user. Responsive to the determining, the one or more computing devices may enable a communication forum between the first user and the second user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762405&OS=08762405&RS=08762405
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08762405
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110131
---
Man endeavors to find answers. Over the ages bards books schools and churches have existed in large part to provide those answers. Recently another source of answers has become preeminent the search engine. By providing a selected set of web pages that are relevant to a user query the search engine gives the testimony of the past and allows access to new discoveries in every field. But even with the ability to propose highly relevant web content as answers to user questions some questions remain unanswered. Often these are highly specific questions that only a handful of people have ever asked. For example a user may seek to know if anyone else has had the same problem with a television of a certain model number and if so to find out what they did about it. Even when the results returned by search engines do provide answers the user often must wade through many duplicative unrelated and otherwise unhelpful search results to discover those answers. Reviewing these many results to discover an answer can be time consuming and frustrating.

Further in seeking answers we often aren t alone. Similar queries are submitted by many users and each of these users may process similar results to the similar queries differently based on differing backgrounds differing result selections or other differing traits or behaviors. Search engines do not enable users to benefit from each others search activities however. Complementary knowledge is not shared and efforts are duplicated. Rather than helping users work together to quickly find answers search engines are designed for seekers to struggle alone.

To bring users that are engaged in similar searches together one or more computing devices are configured to enable those users to engage in a communication forum. For example the computing devices may enable the users to communicate using a bulletin board a web page a chat room an instant messaging conversation a video conference a video call an audio conference an audio call or a scratch pad. In some examples the computing devices may also be configured to determine the users that should engage in the communication forum. The computing devices make this determination based for example on search behavior of a least one of the users. Such search behavior may include search queries patterns of previous searches previous search results or interactions with search results for example. In one implementation the computing devices may determine that the search behavior of a number of users is similar and may enable a communication forum between those users by initiating the communication forum by providing an instruction to a user to initiate the communication forum or by providing a user with a list of other users having similar search behavior.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

This application describes techniques for associating users based on search behavior and enabling those users to engage in a communication forum. For example the techniques may be implemented in one or more computing devices associated with a search engine. Upon receiving a search query the computing devices may determine an entity associated with the search query and optionally with other search behavior of the user. Such other search behavior may include patterns of previous searches previous search results or interactions with search results for example. The computing devices may then determine one or more other users associated with that entity. Upon making that determination the computing devices may enable the users to engage in a communication forum such as a bulletin board a web page a chat room an instant messaging conversation a video conference a video call an audio conference an audio call or a scratch pad. The enabling may include initiating the communication forum by providing an instruction to a user to initiate the communication forum or by providing a user with a list of other users having similar search behavior.

In some implementations the computing devices may also utilize one or more criteria in determining users that should engage in a communication forum. For example the criteria could include one or more of an amount of time between search queries of different users a location of a user information retrieved from or associated with social networks or an organization of a user. These criteria may also be adjusted by the computing devices based on the popularity of a user s search query. For example the criteria could include a preference for other users that the querying user knows and the computing devices could give more weight to that preference when the query is popular.

Also in some implementations the user s participation in communication forums may be conditioned on settings or preferences of the user. The settings or preferences may be associated with a browser a search engine or a social network.

In various implementations the communication forums may have a number of uses and characteristics. For example the communication forums may be configured so as not to interfere with user browsing activity or viewing of search results. Also the communication forums may include links to other communication forums may be used in reranking search results and may be stored for later retrieval. Stored communication forums may be public and searchable by other users and alerts may be sent to previous communication forum participants when the communication forum is updated. Further communication forums may include a reputation or role for some or all of the participants of the communication forum. The reputation or role may be determined based on a participant s interactions in the communication forum and be may associated with privileges that enable management of the communication forum.

In some embodiments in addition to or instead of enabling the communication forum the computing devices may provide users with an indication of how many users are searching for the same query or a similar query may provide users with aggregate information about other users that are searching for the same query or a similar query or may provide users with search behavior of other users that are searching for the same query or a similar query such as links clicked on by the other users.

In addition to the operations mentioned above the computing devices may also enable an entity discussed in the communication forum to provide an advertisement or support to at least one of the first user or the second user and or may enable publishing of comments entered in the communication forum to one or more social networks blogs or web pages.

As is further shown each of the first user and the second user may have a browser other client applications and settings or history . These modules and data may be utilized by the first user and the second user in performing searches and engaging in communication forums .

Also the search server includes modules and data . These modules and data include a search engine a classification module a popularity module a forum module search histories user profiles criteria forum store interfaces and reranking module . The modules and data may be used to associate users and enable those users to engage in communication forums.

In various embodiments the search server may be any sort of computing device or computing devices. For example the search server may be or include a personal computer PC a laptop computer a server or server farm a mainframe or any other sort of device or devices. In one implementation the search server represents a plurality of computing devices working in communication such as a cloud computing network of nodes. When implemented on multiple computing devices the search server may distribute the modules and data among the multiple devices. For example the search engine and forum module could be implemented on different computing devices. In one implementation the search server is associated with a search service such as the Bing Search Engine offered by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. The nature and functions of the modules and data are described further herein. An example search server is illustrated in and is described below in greater detail with reference to that figure.

First user and second user represent two distinct users on one or more computing devices. Each user may be identified to the search server by a pair that includes a computing device identifier and a browser identifier or by a social network login. In other implementations other sorts of identifiers may be used. Each user utilizes a computing device however and those computing devices may include PCs laptop computers tablet computers work stations servers telecommunication devices personal digital assistants PDAs media players media center devices personal video recorders PVRs televisions or any other sort of devices. As used herein first user and second user refer to both the users and the computing device s of the users. First user and second user may each be associated with an organization such as an employer a location a history of search behavior settings or preferences a contact list a social network email and instant messaging clients a location or locations and any number of other characteristics. First user and second user may engage in any number of activities such as searching web browsing social networking instant messaging and many other sorts of activities that are performed on computing devices. An example computing device of the first user or the second user is illustrated in and is described below in greater detail with reference to that figure.

In some implementations network represents any one or more networks such as wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs or the Internet. Network may be public private or include both public and private networks. Also network may be wired wireless or include both wired and wireless networks. Network may utilize any one or more protocols for communication such as the Internet Protocol IP other packet based protocols or cellular communication protocols such as protocols associated with second generation third generation fourth generation or later generation protocols. Network may comprise any number of intermediary devices such as routers base stations access points firewalls or gateway devices.

In various implementations the communication forum serves as a medium for the first user and the second user to engage in communication such as communication about a common search interest. While shows the communication forum as a sort of channel directly connecting the first user and the second user other devices such as search server or another server or device may be involved as intermediary devices or in initiating the communication forum . For example if the communication forum is a web bulletin board or chat room then a server such as search server may provide the bulletin board or chat room as a web page to the first user and the second user . The users may then communicate with each other by posting messages to the server which adds the messages to the bulletin board or chat room and transmits an updated bulletin board or chat room to the first user and the second user . Communication forum may also be a scratch pad. As used herein a scratch pad is a bulletin board that is specific to a user such as first user or second user which include a number of communications from multiple communication forums . Scratch pads may be stored both locally and on a network device such as a server or may only be stored locally or only be stored on a network device. If the communication forum is an instant messaging conversation one of the users or the search server may contact an instant messaging server to initiate an instant messaging conversation between the first user and the second user . Instant messaging clients of the first user and second user may then continue the communication forum in a peer to peer manner. If the communication forum is an audio or video call or conference client applications of the first user and the second user such as a Skype client may be used to initiate and carry on the communication forum . These example communication forums are provided only for the sake of illustration and in no way limit the mediums that may be used as communication forums .

In some implementations the communication forum may include additional users besides the first user and second user . The number and choice of users may be determined entirely by the search server or by both the search server and one of the users . While all participating users may join the communication forum at the same time users may also join over a period of time. For example communication forum may start as a bulletin board between the first user and the second user . After some time the search server may determine that another user should join the communication forum and may enable that other user to join the communication forum .

In further implementations the first user and second user may participate in the communication forum at different times. In such implementations the search server or another device stores a copy of the content of the communication forum and provides that content to a user when the user joins the communication forum even if the other user has already left the communication forum .

As mentioned above first user and second user may each have modules and data . Of these browser may be any sort of web browser such as the Internet Explorer web browser. The browser may communicate with any number of web servers to retrieve and display web pages. Browser may also transmit content entered by a user into the browser by posting the content to a server. For example if the browser has retrieved the Bing search engine the browser may display a query entry page into which a user may type a search query. The user then posts the search query in some manner e.g. clicking on a button displayed on the web page which causes the search query to be transmitted to the Bing search engine which may be search engine . In response the browser receives a search results page which it displays to the user . In some implementations the browser may also or instead display the communication forum e.g. when the communication forum is a bulletin board . The browser may display the communication forum in a separate window enabling simultaneous viewing of both search results and the communication forum or may display the communication forum in place of the search results.

In some implementations the browser may receive a list of users with whom the user may select to engage in a communication forum . This list may be viewed as a web page and the names of the users may be clickable or selectable in some other manner. Upon clicking selecting the names those names may be transmitted to the search server to enable the search server to initiate the communication forum . In other implementations browser may be equipped with a plug in that enables the browser to interface with client applications to request those applications to initiate the communication forum . For example browser may have a plug in enabling the browser to communicate with an instant messaging client application by requesting a list of instant messaging buddies determining if a selected name provided by the search server matches a buddy and if so instructing the instant messaging client application to start an instant messaging conversation with that buddy as the communication forum .

In various implementations the client applications may be any sort of client applications such as an instant messaging client or a video or audio communication client. Examples of such clients include the Windows Messenger instant messaging client and the Skype client for voice over IP VOIP calling. These client applications may receive instructions to engage in the communication forum from servers such as an instant messaging server from the search server through an interface of the search server or through a plug in to browser as described above.

In some implementations settings or history may include settings for browser and or client applications . The settings or history may also include histories of browsing activity or client activity. For example settings or history may include cookies that are transmitted to the search server to convey user preferences such as a preference against engaging in communication forums or a preference to only engage in communication forums with others that the user knows. These preferences may have previously been submitted using a preferences or settings page of the search engine. The browsing history may be a conventional browsing history of web pages visited search queries submitted search results clicked on etc. Also the user may be notified and given an opportunity to opt out of sharing the personal information such as histories of browsing activity or client activity. Alternatively or additionally the history may include the above described scratch pad.

As mentioned above search server includes a number of modules and data implemented on one or more computing devices. Among these modules and data the search engine may be responsible for receiving and answering search queries of the first user and the second user for answering those queries and for invoking the forum module to enable communication forum . The search engine may be any sort of search engine such as the Bing search engine that receives and classifies queries determines results for the queries and provides the results to the users . For example as shown in the search engine may receive search queries from both the first user and the second user . These queries may be received concurrently or over a period of time. The search engine may receive these queries after previously transmitting web pages enabling the users to enter and post the search queries. The search engine may also retrieve settings or history in the form of cookies from the first user and the second user . Upon receiving the search queries the search engine may determine a set of search results based on the search queries and may generate a page to transmit the search results to the users . In determining the search results the search engine may invoke the classification module to determine an entity associated with the search query and may then determine results associated with that entity and query in a particular order. For example if the query was Inception the classification module may classify Inception as a movie and the search engine may proceed based on the query string Inception and its entity movie to generate more relevant results. Also in some implementations the search engine may invoke the popularity module to determine the current popularity of search queries and may include the current popularity with the search results. Upon generating the search results the search engine transmits the search results pages to the first user and the second user as shown in . As mentioned above these search results may be provided concurrently with the communication forum .

In various implementations classification module matches queries to entities that serve as categories for the queries e.g. movie as a category for Inception . The classification module utilizes well known string matching and machine learning techniques to determine entities for queries. In one implementation a user profile or search history specific to a user may be utilized by the classification module to determine an entity. For example if the query submitted is chow the classification module might return food as the entity by default. If the search history of the user submitting chow shows recent searches for retriever and spaniel however the classification module would instead return dog as the entity.

In some implementations the popularity module is notified of each submitted search query and a time at which the search query was received. Based on this information the popularity module calculates a popularity score for each search query or a ranking of the search queries. If a score the score may be given as a total number of the queries received or a percentage of the queries received. The popularity module is invoked by either or both of the search engine or the forum module .

In addition to invoking the classification module and the popularity module the search engine may invoke the forum module . The forum module is configured to determine users that should engage in a communication forum and to enable those users to engage in the communication forum . The search engine may automatically invoke the forum module with any search or may do so conditionally based on user settings or preferences or based on other criteria. Such other criteria may include the popularity of the query or a pattern of search behavior. For example if the user tries a certain number e.g. 3 of semantically similar queries the search engine may invoke the forum module . Also user settings or preferences may include a setting indicating that the user is not interested in participating in a communication forum . Upon detecting such a setting the search engine refrains from invoking the forum module . These user settings and preferences may be provided for example in a cookie that was retrieved from the user in the manner described above.

In various implementations the forum module receives one or both of the search query or entity from the search engine upon being invoked. If receiving only the search query the forum module may invoke the classification module to determine an entity associated with the search query. Also upon being invoked the forum module may retrieve a user profile of a user associated with the query entity and or a search history of the user . As mentioned above the user may be identified in a number of ways e.g. browser computer ID pair or social network login and an identifier of the user may be passed to the forum module along with the query entity.

In some implementations the search history and user profile may each be a data store or structure e.g. a relational database storing information about multiple users . The search history may include a record or structure associated with each user that stores a history of a user s interactions with a search engine such as queries submitted links provided as results and links clicked on by the user . The search engine may create and store the search history . The user profile may also include a record or structure associated with each user that stores information about a user such as the user s location organization employer preferences or social network information. This user profile information may be retrieved from various sources such as user communications with the search engine from cookies or from a social network system as described below with regard to . In one implementation the search history and user profile are stored on another computing device and the illustrated search history and user profile are copies of all or parts of the search history and user profile that are utilized by the search engine and forum module .

In various implementations the forum module may utilize any or all of the search query entity or search history as search behavior representative of a user . Upon determining search behavior associated with a user the forum module determines search behavior of a plurality of other users and ranks those other users based on similarity of their search behavior to that of the user . The ranking may be based on string matching pattern matching machine learning or other techniques for comparing search behavior and determining similarity of the search behavior. For example if the first user submitted Inception as a query the forum module may determine search queries of other users such as second user which are similar to Inception. The more similar the query the higher the other user is ranked.

These other users may include users currently being evaluated by the forum module users currently engaged in communication with the search engine users currently participating in a communication forum or users that previously participated in a communication forum . The forum module then selects a top N users from the ranking as users that the user should engage in a communication forum with. The size of N may be determined by a threshold and may vary based on the popularity of the search query.

To facilitate the determination and ranking the forum module may store representations of search behavior associated with a plurality of users. For example after determining the search behavior of the first user the forum module may store that search behavior and later retrieve it when determining a ranking of users associated with search behavior of the second user .

In some implementations the forum module further checks if the search behavior determined to be similar is associated with any stored or ongoing communication forums . When enabling a communication forum the forum module may store the similar search behavior that led to the communication forum in conjunction with the communication forum . For example the search behavior associated with a communication forum may be stored in the forum store . If the forum module determines that the search behavior is related to a previous or ongoing communication forum the forum module may add the user to that communication forum rather than create a new communication forum .

In various implementations the forum module may also utilize criteria in ranking the other users or in filtering the users selected as communication partners for the user . These criteria may include a number of weighted rules that utilize information found in the search histories and user profiles . For instance the criteria may include an amount of time between search queries of different users a location of a user information retrieved from or associated with social networks a preference for other users known to the user or an organization of a user. The weights associated with these criteria may be determined based on the popularity of the search query. To determine the popularity the forum module invokes the popularity module providing the popularity module with the search query and receiving an indication of the query s popularity in response. If the search query is popular the forum module may increase the weights of the criteria . If unpopular the forum module may decrease the weights. Thus for example if the criteria and user profile indicate that the user prefers to engage in communication forums with persons known to the user the weight given to that preference may be increased when the query is popular. In response to the increased weight the ranking of other users may be reordered or filtered.

Upon determining the other users that the user should engage in a communication forum with the forum module enables the communication forum . In some implementations enabling the communication forum may include generating a list of the other users and providing that list to the user to enable the user to select one or more of the other users . Upon selecting one or more of the other users the user may transmit indications of the users that were selected to the search server or may initiate the communication forum . In one implementation as described above the forum module provides the user with a browser plug in that enables the user to initiate the communication forum . In such an implementation the forum module may also provide an instruction to the user to initiate the communication forum .

In various implementations enabling the communication forum includes initiating the communication forum or providing instructions to another system to initiate the communication forum . The users included in the communication forum may be those determined by the forum module or those selected by the user . In implementations where the communication forum is a bulletin board scratch pad or chat room the forum module creates the communication forum as a web page and provides it to the users selected to participate. If the communication forum is a continuation of a previous communication forum the contents of that previous communication forum are retrieved and included in the web page. In one implementation when reopening a previous communication forum the forum module provides an alert to participants that previously engaged in that communication forum that the communication forum has been read or updated. In implementations where the communication forum is an instant messaging conversation the forum module may communicate with an instant messaging system to instruct the instant messaging system to initiate the communication forum as shown and described in . To interact with and instruct the instant messaging system the forum module utilizes interfaces which may include application programming interfaces APIs of the instant messaging system.

In some implementations in addition to initiating the communication forum or instructing another system to initiate the communication forum the forum module may provide the users with an indication of the search behavior that the communication forum is related to. For example if the communication forum is between the first user and second user about the search query inception or the entity movies the forum module may provide indicate this by displaying text such as Topic Movies in conjunction with the communication forum for by causing another system to display such text.

In implementations where the communication forum is provided by the forum module the forum module may receive comments added to the communication forum from the users and may update the communication forum to include those comments. Also the forum module may store the contents of the communication forum periodically or at the termination of the communication forum . These contents may be stored in the forum store which may be a data store or structure capable of storing contents of communication forums search behavior associated with the communication forum and users that have participated in the communication forum at some point in time. In one implementation the forum store is public and searchable by the search engine . In such an implementation the forum store may store the contents of the communication forums as web pages and the search engine may index search and retrieve these pages in the same manner it does other web pages.

In various implementations the forum module is further configured to enable entities or advertisers mentioned in a communication forum to provide support or advertisements to the first user and second user . For example if the users mention a technical problem with an HP product the forum module may notify HP of the problem including part of the content of the communication forum to enable HP to provide support. The forum module may then invite HP technical support to join the communication forum or may provide identification of the users to enable HP technical support to contact the users .

In another example the forum module may notify one or more advertisers based on interest or discussion of their product or of a topic related to their product. The forum module or another component may then handle bidding between the advertisers the winning bidder placing an advertisement in the communication forum or in a separate web page. In some implementations the user settings or preferences may include a setting or preference not to receive advertisements or support. In such implementations the forum module refrains from enabling entity advertiser support or advertising and optionally charges the user for opting out from the support or advertising.

In some implementations the forum module may include in the communication forum links to other communication forums having related search behavior or shared users . The forum module may include such links when for example multiple previous or ongoing communication forums are associated with the search behavior.

In various implementations the forum module may also enable a social network to publish comments from the communication forum by a user to that user s social network. Upon receiving comments from a user for example the forum module determines from the user profile whether the user is associated with a social network and if the user is associated with a social network provides the comments to the social network via the interfaces which may include APIs of the social network.

At any time the forum module may invoke the reranking module to refine the search engine s ranking algorithm and index or the classification module s algorithm based on the contents of communication forums . For example the reranking module may retrieve communication forum contents from the forum store and utilize those contents to determine a more specific entity for a search query. If the query were Inception and much of the discussion included comparisons to other known science fiction movies then the reranking module may influence the classification module to associate the entity science fiction movies with the query Inception. 

The server system first user second user and network may be the same systems and network illustrated in and may interact with each other in the manner described above with regard to .

In various implementations the social networks may include any number of social networking systems such as Facebook and Twitter . These social networks often provide mechanisms to allow outside content providers such as blogs to have their content posted to the social networks . These mechanisms or others may be utilized by the search server in the manner described above to enable publishing of comments from communication forums to social networks . In some implementations these mechanisms may include APIs which may be included among the interfaces . The search server may also retrieve settings or preferences from the social networks that are associated with the users . For example if a user has heightened privacy settings the contents of the communication forum may be restricted from search use by the search engine . These settings or preferences may likewise be retrieved using interfaces . Further information from the social networks may be used as criteria . For instance if the social networks have a user profile that includes a location employer etc. this information may be added to the user profile and the criteria either when applying the criteria or at some other time independently of applying the criteria .

In some implementations the search server may also interact with instant messaging systems in the manner described above with reference to . The search server may retrieve lists of buddies of the users and use these to filter or weigh based on a preference for other users that are known to the user . The search server may also instruct the instant messaging systems to initiate the communication forum as an instant messaging conversation between the first user and the second user . As mentioned above the search server may interact with the instant messaging systems via the interfaces which may include APIs of the instant messaging systems .

In further implementations the search server may interact with entities or advertisers in the manner described above with reference to . The search server may notify an entity or advertiser of a support or advertising opportunity and may enable bidding on the support or advertising opportunity. Also the search server may allow technical support personnel to join in the communication forum or may include an advertisement from the winning bidder in the communication forum . In other implementations the search server may provide the entities or advertiser with information identifying the user to enable the entities or advertiser to communicate directly with the user .

As illustrated at block one or more computing devices receive a search query from a first user. At block upon receiving the search query the one or more computing devices associate the search query and other search behavior with an entity the entity being associated with both of the first user and a second user. The other search behavior may include a pattern of previous searches previous search results or interactions with search results. For instance the other search behavior may include a search associated with the first user and a search associated with the second user the searches being concurrent.

At block the one or more computing devices determine the popularity of the search query. As shown at block this may involve adjusting one or more criteria based at least on the popularity of the search query. The criteria may include one or more of an amount of time between search queries of different users a location of a user information retrieved from or associated with social networks or an organization of a user. For example the one or more criteria may include a preference for users known to the first user or the second user and the adjusting involves adjusting the preference by giving increased weight to the preference when the search query is determined to be popular.

At block the one or more computing devices determine an association between at least the first user and the second user based at least on search behavior of one or both of the first user or the second user the search behavior including one or both of the search query or the other search behavior. As shown at block the determining may involve determining the association based on the one or more criteria. Alternatively or additionally at block the determining may involve conditioning participation in a communication forum on one or more settings or preferences of the first user or the second user the settings or preferences associated with a browser a search engine or a social network. Alternatively or additionally at block the determining may involve providing a list of potential communication partners and providing a mechanism for initiating a communication forum to communicate with one or more of the potential communication partners. Alternatively or additionally at block the determining may involve identifying at least one of the first user and the second user by either a pair of a computing device identifier and a browser identifier or a social network login.

At block the one or more computing devices in response to the determining enable a communication forum between at least the first user and the second user. Such the enabling may comprise initiating the communication forum providing an instruction to one or both of the first user or the second user to initiate the communication forum or providing one or both of the first user or the second user with a list of other users having similar search behavior. The communication forum may be a web bulletin board a chat room an instant messaging conversation a video conference a video call an audio conference an audio call or a scratch pad. Also the communication forum might not interfere with browsing or search behavior of the first user or the second user. Further the communication forum may include one or more links to one or more other communication forums.

At block the one or more computing devices enable an entity discussed in the communication forum to provide an advertisement or support to at least one of the first user or the second user.

At block the one or more computing devices enable publishing of comments entered in the communication forum to one or more social networks blogs or web pages.

At block the one or more computing devices store contents of the communication forum for subsequent retrieval. In some implementations the stored contents are public and searchable by other users. At block the one or more computing devices send an alert to a previous communication forum participant that the communication forum has been updated.

At block the one or more computing devices rerank search results based at least on contents of the communication forum.

In various embodiments system memory is volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. The modules or data stored in the system memory may comprise methods threads processes applications or any other sort of executable instructions such as the instructions utilized to perform the operations of server system first user or second user . For example modules or data may include any one or more of browser clients settings history search engine classification module popularity module forum module search histories user profiles criteria forum store interfaces or reranking module . These modules data are described above in detail.

In some embodiments the processor s is a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both CPU and GPU or other processing unit or component known in the art.

Computing device also includes additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Storage and may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

Memories and are examples of computer readable media. Computer readable media includes at least two types of computer readable media namely computer storage media and communications media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to phase change memory PRAM static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM other types of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other non transmission medium that can be used to store information for access by a computing device. Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

In contrast communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission mechanism. As defined herein computer storage media does not include communication media.

Computing device also has input device s such as a keyboard a mouse a touch sensitive display voice input device etc. and output device s such as a display speakers a printer etc. These devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device also contains communication connections that allow the computing device to communicate with other computing devices such as any of server system first user second user social networks IM server or Entities Advertisers .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claims.

