---

title: Anchoring for content synchronization
abstract: A computer-implemented method includes receiving from a web browser, by a server system via a network, an indication of dragging, by a user of the web browser, of an element displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser, and dropping, by the user, of the element into a content area displayed on the webpage, the element selected from the group consisting of: a first content item displayed at a location on the webpage other than in the content area, and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item. Responsively to the indication, the server system causes the web browser to display, in the content area, at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item. Other embodiments are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08875038&OS=08875038&RS=08875038
owner: Collarity, Inc.
number: 08875038
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110119
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 296 116 filed Jan. 19 2010 entitled Anchoring for content synchronization which is assigned to the assignee of the present application and is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to presentation of online content and specifically to techniques for aggregating and displaying content of interest from a plurality of online sources.

Web portals aggregate and present information from a plurality of online sources. Portals typically offer services such as search e mail news stock quotes and web news feeds.

In some embodiments of the present invention a portal server system serves a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage. The content areas display respective content items requested from respective one or more online content sources. The portal server system synchronizes the content areas with one another either automatically or in response to a user instruction to do so. The content areas typically are delineated on the webpage as boxes or other regions having borders. Typically the content areas display content of different respective categories such as news content video content search content social content chat content and blog content. For some applications the portal server system periodically automatically updates the content items displayed in one or more of the content areas typically without requiring the webpage to be again served in its entirety. The portal server system thus presents the user with streamed realtime or near realtime content. The portal server system provides a dynamic user experience in which content in the content areas remains up to date relevant to the user and synchronized among some or all of the content areas.

For some applications the system synchronizes the content areas by providing an anchor term which may or may not be displayed to the user on the webpage. The system requests from the online content sources respective content items that are related to the anchor term. Because the system uses the same anchor term for requesting different categories of content from the online content sources the content areas display respective content items that are related to although different from one another. For these applications the system thus provides the user with a content rich experience that at any given instant often focuses on a single topic including content related to the topic from a variety of different online sources. Often content of varying categories is provided in the different content areas. The user interface thus allows the user to quickly learn about various aspects of the currently selected topic while viewing the webpage to shift the focus as desired and or to explore content of particular interest in more depth such as by clicking on a hyperlink provided by the content.

For example the content areas may include one or more of the following each of which display respective different categories of content 

Alternatively or additionally for some applications one or more of the content areas such as those listed immediately above display content regarding a term other than the anchor term. The term may be generated by the system in response to a user instruction to synchronize one or more of the content areas with content of another content area such as described hereinbelow.

For some applications the content initially or subsequently displayed in one or more of the content areas is not related to the anchor term.

For some applications the user instructs the portal server system to synchronize at least some of the content areas in order to focus some or all of the content areas on content currently of interest to the user. In order to provide this instruction the user may select one of the content items displayed in a content area and indicate which of the content areas are to be synchronized with the selected content item. For example the user may drag the selected content item or a graphical element displayed in association with the content item into one of the content areas or into an anchor area displayed on the webpage separately from the content areas. In response to the user s selection and instruction the portal server system synchronizes the indicated content areas with the selected content item. To do so the system generates an updated term optionally an updated anchor term based on the selected content item and requests from the online content sources updated content items related to e.g. generated responsively to the updated term. The system updates the indicated content areas to display the updated content items.

The user may instruct the portal server system synchronize all of the content areas i.e. perform a global synchronization all of the content areas other than the area associated with the selected content item or a particular one of the other content areas. For example the user may instruct the portal server system to synchronize all of the content areas by dragging the content item or a graphical element displayed in association with the content item into the anchor area. Alternatively the user may instruct the portal server system to synchronize a particular content area by dragging the content item or associated graphical element into the particular area such as if the user is interested in more information regarding the content item of the category displayed in the particular area.

As mentioned above for some applications the portal server system periodically automatically updates the content items displayed in one or more of the content areas typically without requiring the webpage to be again served in its entirety. The portal server system performs such automatic updating without requiring an action to be performed by the user e.g. the user does not need to click on or otherwise activate an update or search button or icon and the user does not need to refine a search. The portal server system thus presents the user with streamed realtime or near realtime content e.g. at least once every minute. For some applications the portal server system periodically requests updated content items from the respective one or more online content sources and updates the respective content areas to display the updated content items. The displayed content may change for example because the online content sources index new content. Alternatively or additionally for some applications the portal server system updates the content items displayed in one or more of the content areas by displaying a different subset of the content items previously received from the respective one or more online content sources. For example the portal server system may automatically change the ranking of the content items in a given content area for example based on interactions of other users with the content such as other users on the Web and or other users of the portal server system. Because only a small subset that includes the highest ranked content items received from a given set of one or more online content sources is typically displayed in a content area changing the ranking generally causes a different subset of the content items to be displayed.

For some applications one of the content areas is designated as an anchor content area either by the user or by the system and the system automatically synchronizes at least some of the other content areas with this anchor content area. To perform such synchronization the portal server system typically updates the content items displayed in the anchor content area by periodically requesting the content items from the respective one or more online content sources. The system generates an updated anchor term by analyzing the updated anchor content items. The system requests updated content items from the other online content sources responsively to the updated anchor term and automatically synchronizes the other content areas with the anchor content area by updating the other content areas to display their respective updated content items.

As a result of this synchronization the synchronized content areas display content of potential relevance to the user in light of the content currently displayed in the anchor content area. As the content in the anchor content area changes over time the content in the synchronized content areas is automatically updated to be of continuing relevance. The content displayed in the synchronized content areas thus may serve to provide the user with a better understanding of the content being streamed in the anchor content area such as by providing related information optionally of different content categories.

For example the user may anchor a news content area that displays news items regarding the anchor term. The portal server system periodically updates the news items in the anchor content area by requesting updated news items from a news server. The system analyzes the content of the updated news items and updates one or more of the other content areas to display content based on the analysis. For example the system may synchronize a video content area to display video clips related to the latest news items and or a wiki content area to display an abstracted wiki entry regarding a topic related to the latest news items.

There is therefore provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving from a web browser by a server system via a network an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of an element displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser and dropping by the user of the element into a content area displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of a first content item displayed at a location on the webpage other than in the content area and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and

responsively to the indication causing by the server system the web browser to display in the content area at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

For some applications causing the web browser to display includes serving to the web browser the at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area. For some applications serving includes requesting and receiving by the server system from one or more online content sources the set of one or more second content items. For some applications requesting and receiving includes generating a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and requesting and receiving from the online content sources the set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term.

For some applications causing the web browser to display includes sending an instruction to the web browser to request and receive from one or more online content sources the set of the one or more second content items and to display the at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area. For some applications sending the instruction includes generating a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and sending the instruction to the web browser to request and receive from the online content sources the set of the one or more second content items generated in response to the term.

For some applications the element is the first content item and receiving the indication includes receiving the indication of dragging of the first content item and dropping of the first content item into the content area.

For some applications the element is the graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and receiving the indication includes receiving the indication of dragging of the graphical element and dropping of the graphical element into the content area.

For some applications the set of one or more second content items is generated in response to a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords. For some applications the term is generated responsively to an association graph associated with the first content item. For some applications the term includes an association graph including the keywords as vertices.

For some applications the content area is a first content area and a second content area is displayed on the webpage separately from the first content area which second content area includes the first content item.

For some applications the first content item is one of a plurality of first content items and receiving the indication of dragging includes receiving the indication of dragging of at least one of the first content items.

For some applications the first content item is of a first content category and the second content items are of a second content category different from the first content type and each of the first and second content categories is selected from the group of categories consisting of a video content category a news content category a search content category a social updates content category a chat content category an advertisement content category a blog content category an encyclopedia content category a map content category a finance content category a forum content category and an association content category.

For some applications the set of second content items is received from an entity that does not control the server system the entity selected from the group consisting of an online retailer an online publisher and an online advertiser.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving by a web browser running in a device an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of an element displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser and dropping by the user of the element into a content area displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of a first content item displayed at a location on the webpage other than in the content area and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and

responsively to the indication displaying in the content area by the web browser at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

For some applications receiving further includes receiving by the web browser from at least one web server via a network the content area for display on the webpage and the first content item and displaying includes receiving by the web browser via the network the set of one or more second content items related to the first content item. For some applications receiving the set of one or more second content items includes sending by the web browser a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server and in response to the request receiving by the web browser from the at least one web server the set of one or more second content items related to the first content item. For some applications receiving the set of one or more second content items includes sending by the web browser a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server in response to the request receiving by the web browser from the at least one web server a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and requesting and receiving by the web browser via the network from one or more online content sources the set of one or more second content items related to the term.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving from a web browser by a server system via a network a selection by a user of the web browser of a graphical element displayed in association with a first content item displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser at a location on the webpage other than in a content area and

responsively to the selection causing by the server system the web browser to display in the content area at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

For some applications causing the web browser to display includes serving to the web browser the at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area. For some applications serving includes requesting and receiving by the server system from one or more online content sources the set of one or more second content items. For some applications requesting and receiving includes generating a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and requesting and receiving from the online content sources the set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term.

For some applications receiving the selection of the graphical element includes receiving from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of the graphical element into an anchor box displayed on the webpage separately from the content area. For some applications causing the web browser to display includes sending an instruction to the web browser to request and receive from one or more online content sources the set of one or more second content items and to display the at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area. For some applications sending the instruction includes generating a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and sending the instruction to the web browser to request and receive from the online content sources the set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving from a web browser by a server system via a network a a selection by a user of the web browser of a first content item displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser b a selection by the user of one or more of a plurality of content areas displayed on the webpage and c an instruction by the user to synchronize the selected content areas with the selected first content item and

responsively to the selections and the instruction causing by the server system the web browser to display in the respective selected one or more content areas at least portions of one or more sets of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

For some applications causing the web browser to display includes serving to the web browser the at least portions of the sets of the one or more second content items for display in the respective selected one or more content areas. For some applications serving includes requesting and receiving by the server system from one or more online content sources the one or more sets of the one or more second content items. For some applications requesting and receiving includes generating a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and requesting and receiving from one or more online content sources the one or more sets of the one or more second content items generated in response to the term.

For some applications causing the web browser to display includes sending an instruction to the web browser to request and receive from one or more online content sources the one or more sets of the one or more second content items and to display the at least portions of the sets of the one or more second content items in the respective selected one or more content areas. For some applications sending the instruction includes generating a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and sending the instruction to the web browser to request and receive from the online content sources the one or more sets of the one or more second content items generated in response to the term.

For some applications the method further includes serving the plurality of content areas to the web browser.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving by a server system via a network from a web browser that displays a webpage that displays a plurality of content areas which display at least portions of sets of content items respectively a a selection by a user of the web browser of at least one of the displayed content items and b an instruction by the user to synchronize one or more of the content areas with the selected content item and

responsively to the selection and the instruction causing by the server system the web browser to display in the one or more content areas to be synchronized respective updated sets of content items that are related to at least one of the displayed content items selected by the user.

For some applications causing the web browser to display includes serving to the web browser the at least portions of the updated sets of content items for display in the one or more content areas respectively.

For some applications causing the browser to display includes sending an instruction to the web browser to a request and receive from a plurality of online content sources the respective updated sets of content items and b display at least portions of the updated sets of content items in the one or more content areas respectively.

For some applications the method further includes before receiving the selection and the instruction 

requesting and receiving by the server system from a plurality of online content sources the respective sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to a term that includes one or more keywords and

serving to the web browser the plurality of content areas for display on the webpage which content areas display the at least portions of the sets of content items respectively.

For some applications causing the browser to display includes generating by the server system an updated term and requesting and receiving from the online content sources that respectively generated the sets of content items displayed by the one or more content areas the respective updated sets of content items. For some applications generating the updated term includes generating the updated term responsively to the selected at least one of the displayed content items.

For some applications generating the updated term includes generating the updated term responsively to an association graph associated with the selected at least one of the displayed content items.

For some applications the term includes an association graph including the respective keywords as vertices.

For some applications the one or more content areas to be synchronized consist of exactly one of the content areas in which is displayed the selected at least one of the content items.

For some applications the selected at least one of the content items is displayed in a first one of the content areas and the one or more content areas include at least a second one of the content areas other than the first content area. For some applications receiving the selection includes receiving an indication of dragging by the user of an element displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of the selected at least one of the content items and a graphical element displayed in association with the selected at least one of the content items and receiving the instruction includes receiving an indication of dropping by the user of the element into the second content area. For some applications the set of content items displayed in the second content area includes advertising content.

the one or more content areas to be synchronized include all of the content areas other than the first content area 

receiving the selection includes receiving an indication of dragging by the user of an element displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of the selected at least one of the content items and a graphical element displayed in association with the selected at least one of the content items and

receiving the instruction includes receiving an indication of dropping by the user of the element into the anchor area.

the one or more content areas to be synchronized include all of the content areas including the first content area 

receiving the selection and instruction includes receiving an indication of dragging by the user of an element displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of the selected at least one of the content items and a graphical element displayed in association with the selected at least one of the content items and

receiving the instruction includes receiving an indication of dropping by the user of the element into the anchor area.

For some applications receiving the selection and instruction includes receiving the selection and instruction given by the user in a single action.

For some applications receiving the selection includes receiving an indication of dragging by the user of an element displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of the selected at least one of the content items and a graphical element displayed in association with the selected at least one of the content items and receiving the instruction includes receiving an indication of dropping by the user of the element at a location on the webpage.

For some applications at least one of the content items of the updated sets is received from an entity that does not control the server system the entity selected from the group consisting of an online retailer an online publisher and an online advertiser.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

serving by a server system to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser a plurality of content areas exactly one of which content areas is designated as an anchor content area that displays at least a portion of an anchor set of content items and one or more of which content areas other than the anchor content area are designated as synchronized content areas that display at least portions of synchronized sets of content items respectively and

causing by the server system the web browser to periodically update at least some of the content areas by the web browser periodically 

updating the anchor content area by displaying therein at least a portion of an updated anchor set of content items received by the web browser and

automatically synchronizing the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by displaying in the synchronized content areas respectively at least portions of updated synchronized sets of content items received by the web browser and generated in response to an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items.

For some applications causing the web browser to periodically update includes performing by the server system the analysis of the updated anchor set. For some applications performing the analysis includes performing the analysis of the portion of the updated anchor set displayed in the anchor content area.

For some applications causing the web browser to periodically update includes sending by the server system an instruction to the web browser to perform the analysis of the updated anchor set.

For some applications causing the web browser to periodically update includes serving by the server system the at least a portion of the updated anchor set of content items for display in the anchor content area.

For some applications causing the web browser to periodically update includes sending by the server system an instruction to the web browser to request and receive the at least a portion of the updated anchor set of content items for display in the anchor content area.

For some applications serving the plurality of content areas includes requesting and receiving by the server system from a plurality of online content sources the anchor set and synchronized sets of content items generated by the online content sources in response to a term that includes one or more keywords and serving the anchor set and synchronized sets of content items to the web browser. For some applications serving includes receiving the term from the user. For some applications the webpage includes an anchor area separate from the content areas and serving includes receiving the term from the user via the anchor area. For some applications serving includes using as the term a popular or trendy term. For some applications serving includes generating by the server system the term responsively to profile of the user. For some applications requesting at least one the anchor and synchronized sets includes using a search facility of the one or more online content sources. For some applications requesting at least one the anchor and synchronized sets includes using an application programming interface API provided by the one or more online content sources.

For some applications causing the web browser to periodically update includes generating by the server system a term responsively to the analysis of the updated anchor set which term includes one or more keywords and the updated synchronized sets of content items are generated in response to the term.

For some applications the updated synchronized sets of content items are generated in response to the analysis which identifies for inclusion in the synchronized sets content items that are related to the content items of the updated anchor set.

For some applications the content items of the anchor set are of a first content category and the content items of one of the synchronized sets are of a second content category different from the first content type and each of the first and second content categories is selected from the group of categories consisting of a video content category a news content category a search content category a social updates content category a chat content category an advertisement content category a blog content category an encyclopedia content category a map content category a finance content category a forum content category and an association content category.

For some applications automatically synchronizing includes automatically synchronizing at least a portion of the synchronized content areas once every one to five minutes.

For some applications serving includes receiving a designation command from a user of the web browser and designating the exactly one of the content areas as the anchor content area responsively to the user designation command.

For some applications causing the web browser to periodically update includes receiving an instruction from the user to lock one of the one or more content areas and responsively to the instruction withholding periodically updating the locked content area while continuing to periodically update others of the one or more content areas.

For some applications serving includes ranking by the server system the content items of the anchor set and selecting one or more of the highest ranked content items as the at least a portion of the content items of the anchor set displayed in the anchor content area. For some applications ranking includes ranking responsively to a profile selected from the group consisting of a profile of the user a profile of a community of users to which the user belongs and a profile of all users.

For some applications serving the content areas includes providing at least one of the content areas with a search field receiving a search query entered by the user into the search field and updating the portion of the content items displayed in the content area responsively to the search query.

For some applications serving the content areas includes receiving a request from the user to enlarge one of the content areas and responsively to the request enlarging the one of the content areas and reducing respective sizes of others of the content areas.

For some applications serving the content areas includes setting respective levels of prominence of at least some of the content areas responsively to respective levels of relevancy of the respective sources to the term.

For some applications serving the content areas includes configuring at least one of the content areas to display exactly one of the content items.

For some applications at least one of the content items of the updated synchronized sets is received from an entity that does not control the server system the entity selected from the group consisting of an online retailer an online publisher and an online advertiser.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving by a web browser running in a device a webpage including a plurality of content areas exactly one of which content areas is designated as an anchor content area that displays at least a portion of an anchor set of content items and one or more of which content areas other than the anchor content area are designated as synchronized content areas that display at least portions of synchronized sets of content items respectively 

updating the anchor content area by displaying therein at least a portion of an updated anchor set of content items received by the web browser and

automatically synchronizing the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by displaying in the synchronized content areas respectively at least portions of updated synchronized sets of content items received by the web browser and generated in response to an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving from a web browser running in a window displayed in a graphical user interface GUI by a server system via a network an indication of a dragging by a user of the web browser of an element associated with a first content item and displayed in the GUI at a location other than in the web browser and b dropping by the user of the element into a content area displayed on the webpage and

responsively to the indication causing by the server system the web browser to display in the content area at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

For some applications the content item includes a document and the element includes an icon that represents the document. For some applications the content item is selected from the group of files consisting of an image file an audio file and a video file and the element includes an icon that represents the selected file. For some applications the content item includes a document and the element includes a portion of the document displayed in a window in the GUI.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving by a web browser running in a window displayed in a graphical user interface GUI of a device an indication of a dragging by a user of the device of an element associated with a first content item and displayed in the GUI at a location other than in the web browser and b dropping by the user of the element into a content area displayed on the webpage and

responsively to the indication displaying by the web browser in the content area at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to receive via the interface from a web browser by a server system via a network an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of an element displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser and dropping by the user of the element into a content area displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of a first content item displayed at a location on the webpage other than in the content area and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the indication cause the web browser to display in the content area at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus that communicates with at least one web server via a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to run a web browser that is configured to receive a a webpage b from the at least one web server via the network a content area for display on the webpage and c a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area display the webpage on the display receive an indication of dragging by a user of the device of an element an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item responsively to the indication receive via the network a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item and display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to serve via the interface a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area receive from the web browser a selection by a user of the web browser of a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the selection generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive via the network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and serve to the web browser via the interface at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to receive from a web browser via the interface over the network a selection by a user of the web browser of a graphical element displayed in association with a first content item displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser at a location on the webpage other than in a content area and responsively to the selection cause the web browser to display in the content area at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to receive from a web browser via the interface over the network a a selection by a user of the web browser of a first content item displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser b a selection by the user of one or more of a plurality of content areas displayed on the webpage and c an instruction by the user to synchronize the selected content areas with the selected first content item and responsively to the selections and the instruction cause the web browser to display in the respective selected one or more content areas at least portions of one or more sets of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to receive via the interface over the network from a web browser that displays a webpage that displays a plurality of content areas which display at least portions of sets of content items respectively a a selection by a user of the web browser of at least one of the displayed content items and b an instruction by the user to synchronize one or more of the content areas with the selected content item and responsively to the selection and the instruction cause the web browser to display in the one or more content areas to be synchronized respective updated sets of content items that are related to at least one of the displayed content items selected by the user.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to serve via the interface over the network to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser a plurality of content areas exactly one of which content areas is designated as an anchor content area that displays at least a portion of an anchor set of content items and one or more of which content areas other than the anchor content area are designated as synchronized content areas that display at least portions of synchronized sets of content items respectively and cause the web browser to periodically update at least some of the content areas by the web browser periodically updating the anchor content area by displaying therein at least a portion of an updated anchor set of content items received by the web browser and automatically synchronizing the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by displaying in the synchronized content areas respectively at least portions of updated synchronized sets of content items received by the web browser and generated in response to an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to run a web browser that is configured to receive a webpage including a plurality of content areas exactly one of which content areas is designated as an anchor content area that displays at least a portion of an anchor set of content items and one or more of which content areas other than the anchor content area are designated as synchronized content areas that display at least portions of synchronized sets of content items respectively display the webpage on the display and periodically update at least some of the content areas by periodically updating the anchor content area by displaying therein at least a portion of an updated anchor set of content items received by the web browser and automatically synchronizing the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by displaying in the synchronized content areas respectively at least portions of updated synchronized sets of content items received by the web browser and generated in response to an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to receive from a web browser via a network an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of an element displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser and dropping by the user of the element into a content area displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of a first content item displayed at a location on the webpage other than in the content area and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the indication to cause the web browser to display in the content area at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer running a web browser cause the web browser to receive an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of an element displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser and dropping by the user of the element into a content area displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of a first content item displayed at a location on the webpage other than in the content area and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the indication display in the content area at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to receive from a web browser via a network a selection by a user of the web browser of a graphical element displayed in association with a first content item displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser at a location on the webpage other than in a content area and responsively to the selection cause the web browser to display in the content area at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to receive from a web browser via a network a a selection by a user of the web browser of a first content item displayed on a webpage displayed by the web browser b a selection by the user of one or more of a plurality of content areas displayed on the webpage and c an instruction by the user to synchronize the selected content areas with the selected first content item and responsively to the selections and the instruction cause the web browser to display in the respective selected one or more content areas at least portions of one or more sets of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to receive via a network from a web browser that displays a webpage that displays a plurality of content areas which display at least portions of sets of content items respectively a a selection by a user of the web browser of at least one of the displayed content items and b an instruction by the user to synchronize one or more of the content areas with the selected content item and responsively to the selection and the instruction cause the web browser to display in the one or more content areas to be synchronized respective updated sets of content items that are related to at least one of the displayed content items selected by the user.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to serving to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser a plurality of content areas exactly one of which content areas is designated as an anchor content area that displays at least a portion of an anchor set of content items and one or more of which content areas other than the anchor content area are designated as synchronized content areas that display at least portions of synchronized sets of content items respectively and cause the web browser to periodically update at least some of the content areas by the web browser periodically updating the anchor content area by displaying therein at least a portion of an updated anchor set of content items received by the web browser and automatically synchronizing the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by displaying in the synchronized content areas respectively at least portions of updated synchronized sets of content items received by the web browser and generated in response to an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer running a web browser cause the web browser to receive a webpage including a plurality of content areas exactly one of which content areas is designated as an anchor content area that displays at least a portion of an anchor set of content items and one or more of which content areas other than the anchor content area are designated as synchronized content areas that display at least portions of synchronized sets of content items respectively display the webpage on a display and periodically update at least some of the content areas by periodically updating the anchor content area by displaying therein at least a portion of an updated anchor set of content items received by the web browser and automatically synchronizing the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by displaying in the synchronized content areas respectively at least portions of updated synchronized sets of content items received by the web browser and generated in response to an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to receive from a web browser running in a window displayed in a graphical user interface GUI via a network an indication of a dragging by a user of the web browser of an element associated with a first content item and displayed in the GUI at a location other than in the web browser and b dropping by the user of the element into a content area displayed on the webpage and responsively to the indication cause the web browser to display in the content area at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer running a web browser in a window displayed in a graphical user interface GUI of a device cause the web browser to receive an indication of a dragging by a user of the device of an element associated with a first content item and displayed in the GUI at a location other than in the web browser and b dropping by the user of the element into a content area displayed on the webpage and responsively to the indication display in the content area at least a portion of a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

serving a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area 

receiving from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and

requesting and receiving via a network from one or more online content sources a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and

serving to the web browser at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

serving a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area 

receiving from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and

sending an instruction to the web browser to request and receive via a network from one or more online content sources a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

For some applications the element is the first content item and receiving the indication includes receiving the indication of dragging of the first content item and dropping of the first content item into the content area.

For some applications the element is the graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and receiving the indication includes receiving the indication of dragging of the graphical element and dropping of the graphical element into the content area.

For some applications generating the term includes generating the term responsively to an association graph associated with the first content item.

For some applications the term includes an association graph including the keywords as vertices and generating the term includes generating the association graph.

For some applications the content area is a first content area and further including serving a second content area for display on the webpage separately from the first content area which second content area includes the first content item.

For some applications the first content item is one of a plurality of first content items and receiving the indication of dragging includes receiving the indication of dragging of at least one of the first content items.

For some applications the first content item is of a first content type and the second content items are of a second content type different from the first content type.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving by a web browser running in a device a a webpage b from at least one web server via a network a content area for display on the webpage and c a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area 

receiving by the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the device of an element an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item 

responsively to the indication sending by the web browser a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server 

in response to the request receiving by the web browser from the at least one web server a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item and

displaying by the web browser at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving by a web browser running in a device a a webpage b from at least one web server via a network a content area for display on the webpage and c a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area 

receiving by the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the device of an element an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item 

responsively to the indication sending by the web browser a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server 

in response to the request receiving by the web browser from the at least one web server a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords 

requesting and receiving by the web browser via the network from one or more online content sources a set of one or more second content items related to the term and

displaying by the web browser at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

serving to a web browser a a content area for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser and b an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area wherein the webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object 

receiving from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box and

requesting and receiving via a network from one or more online content sources a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and

serving to the web browser at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

serving to a web browser a a content area for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser and b an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area wherein the webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object 

receiving from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box and

sending an instruction to the web browser to request and receive via a network from one or more online content sources a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

For some applications the non textual content object includes an image. Alternatively or additionally for some applications the non textual content object includes a video.

For some applications generating the term includes generating the term responsively to an association graph associated with the first content item.

For some applications the term includes an association graph including the keywords as vertices and generating the term includes generating the association graph.

For some applications the first content item is one of a plurality of first content items the content area is a first content area the method further includes serving a second content area for display on the webpage separately from the first content area which second content area includes the first content items and receiving the indication of dragging includes receiving the indication of dragging of at least one of the first content items.

For some applications the first content item is of a first content type and the second content items are of a second content type different from the first content type.

For some applications the content area is one of a plurality of content areas serving the content area includes serving the plurality of content areas for display on the webpage the one or more online content sources are of a plurality of online content sources requesting and receiving includes requesting and receiving via the network from one or more of the online content sources respective sets of one more second content items generated in response to the term and serving the at least a portion of the set of second content items includes serving at least portions of the sets for display in the one or more of the content areas respectively.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving by a web browser running in a device a a webpage b from at least one web server via a network a content area for display on the webpage c an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area and d a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object 

receiving by the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the device of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box 

responsively to the indication sending by the web browser a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server 

in response to the request receiving by the web browser from the at least one web server a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item and

displaying by the web browser at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

receiving by a web browser running in a device a a webpage b from at least one web server via a network a content area for display on the webpage c an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area and d a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object 

receiving by the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the device of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box 

responsively to the indication sending by the web browser a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server 

in response to the request receiving by the web browser from the at least one web server a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords 

requesting and receiving by the web browser via the network from one or more online content sources a set of one or more second content items related to the term and

displaying by the web browser at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

serving a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area 

receiving from the web browser a selection by a user of the web browser of a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and

requesting and receiving via a network from one or more online content sources a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and

serving to the web browser at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area.

For some applications the method further includes serving an anchor box to the web browser for display on the webpage separately from the content area and receiving the selection of the graphical element includes receiving from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of the graphical element into the anchor box.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

serving a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area 

receiving from the web browser a selection by a user of the web browser of a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and

sending an instruction to the web browser to request and receive via a network from one or more online content sources a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

For some applications the method further includes serving an anchor box to the web browser for display on the webpage separately from the content area and receiving the selection of the graphical element includes receiving from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of the graphical element into the anchor box.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

serving a plurality of content areas to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item 

receiving from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of the displayed content item b a selection by the user of one or more of the content areas and c an instruction by the user to synchronize the selected content areas with the selected content item and

requesting and receiving from one or more online content sources one or more sets of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and

serving to the web browser at least portions of the sets of second content items for display in the respective selected one or more content areas.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

serving a plurality of content areas to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item 

receiving from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of the displayed content item b a selection by the user of one or more of the content areas and c an instruction by the user to synchronize the selected the content areas with the selected content item and

sending an instruction to the web browser to request and receive via a network from one or more online content sources one or more sets of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least portions of the sets of second content items in the respective selected one or more content areas.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

requesting and receiving via a network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term 

serving to a web browser a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which content areas display at least portions of the sets of content items respectively 

receiving from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of at least one of the displayed content items and b an instruction by the user to synchronize one or more of the content areas with the selected content item 

responsively to the selection and the instruction generating an updated term and requesting and receiving via the network from the online content sources that generated the sets of content items displayed by the one or more content areas updated sets of content items generated in response to the updated term and

serving to the web browser at least portions of the updated sets of content items for display in the one or more content areas respectively.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

sending a request to a web browser to request and receive via a network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term 

serving to the web browser a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser an instruction to display at least portions of the sets of content items in the content areas respectively 

receiving from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of at least one of the displayed content items and b an instruction by the user to synchronize one or more of the content areas with the selected content item and

responsively to the selection and the instruction generating an updated term and sending an instruction to the web browser to a request and receive via the network from the online content sources that generated the sets of content items displayed by the one or more content areas updated sets of content items generated in response to the updated term and b display at least portions of the updated sets of content items in the one or more content areas respectively.

For some applications generating the updated term includes generating the updated term responsively to the selected at least one of the displayed content items.

For some applications generating the updated term includes generating the updated term responsively to an association graph associated with the selected at least one of the displayed content items.

For some applications the term includes an association graph including the respective keywords as vertices.

For some applications the one or more content areas consist of only one of the content areas in which is displayed the selected at least one of the content items.

For some applications the selected at least one of the content items is displayed in a first one of the content areas and the one or more content areas include at least a second one of the content areas other than the first content area. For some applications receiving the selection includes receiving an indication of dragging by the user of an element displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of the selected at least one of the content items and a graphical element displayed in association with the selected at least one of the content items and receiving the instruction includes receiving an indication of dropping by the user of the element into the second content area.

For some applications the set of content items displayed in the second content area includes advertising content.

For some applications the selected at least one of the content items is displayed in a first one of the content areas the one or more content areas include all of the content areas other than the first content area the webpage includes an anchor area separate from the content areas receiving the selection includes receiving an indication of dragging by the user of an element displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of the selected at least one of the content items and a graphical element displayed in association with the selected at least one of the content items and receiving the instruction includes receiving an indication of dropping by the user of the element into the anchor area.

For some applications the selected at least one of the content items is displayed in a first one of the content areas the one or more content areas include all of the content areas including the first content area the webpage includes an anchor area separate from the content areas receiving the selection and instruction includes receiving an indication of dragging by the user of an element displayed on the webpage the element selected from the group consisting of the selected at least one of the content items and a graphical element displayed in association with the selected at least one of the content items and receiving the instruction includes receiving an indication of dropping by the user of the element into the anchor area.

For some applications receiving the selection and instruction includes receiving the selection and instruction given by the user in a single action.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

requesting and receiving via a network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term 

serving to a web browser a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which content areas display at least portions of the sets of content items respectively 

designating a exactly one of the content areas as an anchor content area associated with an anchor set of content items and b one or more of the content areas other than the anchor content area as synchronized content areas associated with respective synchronized sets of content items and

updating the anchor set of content items by requesting the anchor set of content items from one or more of the online content sources 

requesting and receiving from the online content sources that generated the synchronized sets of content items updated synchronized sets of content items generated in response to the updated term 

updating the anchor content area by serving to the web browser at least a portion of the updated anchor set of content items for display in the anchor content area and

automatically synchronizing the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by serving to the web browser at least portions of the updated synchronized sets of content items for display in the synchronize content areas respectively.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer implemented method including 

sending an instruction to a web browser to request and receive via a network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term 

serving to the web browser a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which content areas display at least portions of the sets of content items respectively 

designating a exactly one of the content areas as an anchor content area associated with an anchor set of content items and b one or more of the content areas other than the anchor content area as synchronized content areas associated with respective synchronized sets of content items and

updating the anchor set of content items by sending an instruction to the web browser to request the anchor set of content items from the one or more online content sources 

sending an instruction to the web browser to a request and receive from the online content sources that generated the synchronized sets of content items updated synchronized sets of content items generated in response to the updated term b update the anchor content area to display at least a portion of the updated anchor set of content items and c automatically synchronize the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by displaying at least portions of the updated synchronized sets of content items in the synchronize content areas respectively.

For some applications updating the anchor set includes automatically requesting the anchor set from the online content sources.

For some applications updating the anchor content area and automatically synchronizing includes updating the anchor content area and automatically synchronizing without requiring the webpage to be served in its entirety to the web browser.

For some applications designating includes receiving a designation command from a user of the web browser and designating the exactly one of the content areas as the anchor content area responsively to the user designation command.

For some applications periodically updating includes receiving an instruction from the user to lock one of the one or more content areas and responsively to the instruction withholding periodically updating the locked content area while continuing to periodically update others of the one or more content areas.

For some applications serving the content areas includes ranking the content items of at least one of the sets and selecting one or more of the highest ranked content items as the at least a portion of the content items of the at least one of the sets. For some applications ranking includes ranking responsively to a profile selected from the group consisting of a profile of the user a profile of a community of users to which the user belongs and a profile of all users. For some applications ranking includes performing an analysis of at least a portion of the content items received from the online content sources and ranking responsively to the analysis.

For some applications serving the content areas includes serving the at least portions of the sets of content items within one second after requesting the respective content items from the online sources.

For some applications receiving the term includes receiving the term from the user. For some applications the webpage includes an anchor area separate from the content areas and receiving the term includes receiving the term from the user via the anchor area.

For some applications receiving the term includes generating the term responsively to profile of the user.

For some applications serving the content areas includes serving names of the online content sources for display on the webpage in association with the respective content areas.

For some applications serving the content areas includes providing at least one of the content areas with a search field receiving a search query entered by the user into the search field and updating the portion of the content items displayed in the content area responsively to the search query.

For some applications serving the content areas includes receiving a request from the user to enlarge one of the content areas and responsively to the request enlarging the one of the content areas and reducing respective sizes of others of the content areas.

For some applications serving the content areas includes setting respective levels of prominence of at least some of the content areas responsively to respective levels of relevancy of the respective sources to the term.

For some applications requesting at least one the respective sets includes using a search facility of the respective online content source.

For some applications requesting at least one the respective sets includes using an application programming interface API provided by the one or more online content sources.

For some applications serving the content areas includes configuring at least one of the content areas to display exactly one of the content items.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to serve via the interface a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area receive from the web browser via the interface an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the indication generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive via the network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and serve via the interface to the web browser at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to serve via the interface a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area receive from the web browser via the interface an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the indication generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and send via the interface an instruction to the web browser to request and receive via the network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus that communicates with at least one web server via a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to run a web browser that is configured to receive a a webpage b from the at least one web server via the network a content area for display on the webpage and c a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area display the webpage on the display receive an indication of dragging by a user of the device of an element an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item responsively to the indication send a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server in response to the request receive from the at least one web server a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item and display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus that communicates with at least one web server via a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to run a web browser that is configured to receive a a webpage b from the at least one web server via the network a content area for display on the webpage and c a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area display the webpage on the display receive an indication of dragging by a user of the device of an element an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item responsively to the indication send a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server in response to the request receive from the at least one web server a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive via the network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items related to the term and display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to serve to a web browser via the interface a a content area for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser and b an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area wherein the webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object receive from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box and responsively to the indication generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive via the network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and serve to the web browser via the interface at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to serve to a web browser via the interface a a content area for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser and b an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area wherein the webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object receive from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box and responsively to the indication generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and send an instruction to the web browser via the interface to request and receive via the network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus that communicates with at least one web server via a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to run a web browser that is configured to receive a a webpage b from the at least one web server via the network a content area for display on the webpage c an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area and d a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object display the webpage on the display receive an indication of dragging by a user of the device of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box responsively to the indication send a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server in response to the request receive from the at least one web server a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item and display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus that communicates with at least one web server via a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to run a web browser that is configured to receive a a webpage b from the at least one web server via the network a content area for display on the webpage c an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area and d a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object display the webpage on the display receive an indication of dragging by a user of the device of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box responsively to the indication send a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server in response to the request receive from the at least one web server a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive via the network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items related to the term and display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to serve via the interface a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area receive from the web browser a selection by a user of the web browser of a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the selection generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive via the network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and serve to the web browser via the interface at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to serve via the interface a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area receive from the web browser a selection by a user of the web browser of a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the selection generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and send via the interface an instruction to the web browser to request and receive via the network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to serve via the interface a plurality of content areas to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item receive from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of the displayed content item b a selection by the user of one or more of the content areas and c an instruction by the user to synchronize the selected content areas with the selected content item and responsively to the selections and the instruction generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive from an online content source one or more sets of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and serve to the web browser via the interface at least portions of the sets of second content items for display in the respective selected one or more content areas.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to serve via the interface a plurality of content areas to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item receive from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of the displayed content item b a selection by the user of one or more of the content areas and c an instruction by the user to synchronize the selected the content areas with the selected content item and responsively to the selections and the instruction generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and send via the interface an instruction to the web browser to request and receive via the network from an online content source one or more sets of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least portions of the sets of second content items in the respective selected one or more content areas.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to request and receive via the network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term serve to a web browser via the interface a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which content areas display at least portions of the sets of content items respectively receive from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of at least one of the displayed content items and b an instruction by the user to synchronize one or more of the content areas with the selected content item responsively to the selection and the instruction generating an updated term and requesting and receiving via the network from the online content sources that generated the sets of content items displayed by the one or more content areas updated sets of content items generated in response to the updated term and serve to the web browser via the interface at least portions of the updated sets of content items for display in the one or more content areas respectively.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to receive a term that includes one or more keywords send a request to a web browser to request and receive via the network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term serve to the web browser via the interface a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser an instruction to display at least portions of the sets of content items in the content areas respectively receive from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of at least one of the displayed content items and b an instruction by the user to synchronize one or more of the content areas with the selected content item and responsively to the selection and the instruction generate an updated term and send an instruction to the web browser via the interface to a request and receive via the network from the online content sources that generated the sets of content items displayed by the one or more content areas updated sets of content items generated in response to the updated term and b display at least portions of the updated sets of content items in the one or more content areas respectively.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to receive a term that includes one or more keywords request and receive via the network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term serve to a web browser via the interface a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which content areas display at least portions of the sets of content items respectively designate a exactly one of the content areas as an anchor content area associated with an anchor set of content items and b one or more of the content areas other than the anchor content area as synchronized content areas associated with respective synchronized sets of content items and periodically update some of the content areas by periodically updating the anchor set of content items by requesting the anchor set of content items from the one or more online content sources performing an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items generating an updated term responsively to the analysis requesting and receiving from the online content sources that generated the synchronized sets of content items updated synchronized sets of content items generated in response to the updated term updating the anchor content area by serving to the web browser via the interface at least a portion of the updated anchor set of content items for display in the anchor content area and automatically synchronizing the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by serving to the web browser at least portions of the updated synchronized sets of content items for display in the synchronize content areas respectively.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention apparatus for use with a network the apparatus including 

a processor which is configured to receive a term that includes one or more keywords send an instruction to a web browser to request and receive via the network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term serve to the web browser via the interface a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which content areas display at least portions of the sets of content items respectively designate a exactly one of the content areas as an anchor content area associated with an anchor set of content items and b one or more of the content areas other than the anchor content area as synchronized content areas associated with respective synchronized sets of content items and periodically updating some of the content areas by periodically updating the anchor set of content items by sending an instruction to the web browser to request the anchor set of content items from the one or more online content sources performing an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items generating an updated term responsively to the analysis and sending via the interface an instruction to the web browser to a request and receive from the online content sources that generated the synchronized sets of content items updated synchronized sets of content items generated in response to the updated term b update the anchor content area to display at least a portion of the updated anchor set of content items and c automatically synchronize the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by displaying at least portions of the updated synchronized sets of content items in the synchronize content areas respectively.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to serve a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area receive from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the indication generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive via a network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and serve to the web browser at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to serve a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area receive from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the indication generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and send an instruction to the web browser to request and receive via a network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer running a web browser cause the web browser to receive a a webpage b from at least one web server via a network a content area for display on the webpage and c a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area display the webpage receive an indication of dragging by a user of the device of an element an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item responsively to the indication send a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server in response to the request receive from the at least one web server a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item and display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer running a web browser cause the web browser to receive a a webpage b from at least one web server via a network a content area for display on the webpage and c a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area display the webpage receive an indication of dragging by a user of the device of an element an element displayed on the webpage and dropping by the user of the element into the content area the element selected from the group consisting of the first content item and a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item responsively to the indication send a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server in response to the request receive from the at least one web server a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive via the network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items related to the term and display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to serve to a web browser a a content area for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser and b an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area wherein the webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object receive from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box and responsively to the indication generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive via a network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and serve to the web browser at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to serve to a web browser a a content area for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser and b an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area wherein the webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object receive from the web browser an indication of dragging by a user of the web browser of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box and responsively to the indication generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and send an instruction to the web browser to request and receive via a network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer running a web browser cause the web browser to receive a a webpage b from at least one web server via a network a content area for display on the webpage c an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area and d a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object display the webpage receive an indication of dragging by a user of the device of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box responsively to the indication send a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server in response to the request receive from the at least one web server a set of one or more second content items related to the first content item and display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer running a web browser cause the web browser to receive a a webpage b from at least one web server via a network a content area for display on the webpage c an anchor box for display on the webpage separately from the content area and d a first content item for display at a location on the webpage other than in the content area or the anchor box which first content item includes a non textual content object display the webpage receive an indication of dragging by a user of the device of at least the non textual content object and dropping by the user of at least the non textual content object into the anchor box responsively to the indication send a request including an identifier of the first content item to the at least one web server in response to the request receive from the at least one web server a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive via the network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items related to the term and display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to serve a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area receive from the web browser a selection by a user of the web browser of a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the selection generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive via a network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and serve to the web browser at least a portion of the set of second content items for display in the content area.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to serve a content area to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item at a location on the webpage other than in the content area receive from the web browser a selection by a user of the web browser of a graphical element displayed in association with the first content item and responsively to the selection generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and send an instruction to the web browser to request and receive via a network from an online content source a set of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least a portion of the set of second content items in the content area.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to serve a plurality of content areas to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item receive from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of the displayed content item b a selection by the user of one or more of the content areas and c an instruction by the user to synchronize the selected content areas with the selected content item and responsively to the selections and the instruction generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords request and receive from an online content source one or more sets of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and serve to the web browser at least portions of the sets of second content items for display in the respective selected one or more content areas.

There is additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to serve a plurality of content areas to a web browser for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which webpage displays a first content item receive from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of the displayed content item b a selection by the user of one or more of the content areas and c an instruction by the user to synchronize the selected the content areas with the selected content item and responsively to the selections and the instruction generate a term related to the first content item which term includes one or more keywords and send an instruction to the web browser to request and receive via a network from an online content source one or more sets of one or more second content items generated in response to the term and to display at least portions of the sets of second content items in the respective selected one or more content areas.

There is yet additionally provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to request and receive via a network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term serve to a web browser a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which content areas display at least portions of the sets of content items respectively receive from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of at least one of the displayed content items and b an instruction by the user to synchronize one or more of the content areas with the selected content item responsively to the selection and the instruction generating an updated term and requesting and receiving via the network from the online content sources that generated the sets of content items displayed by the one or more content areas updated sets of content items generated in response to the updated term and serve to the web browser at least portions of the updated sets of content items for display in the one or more content areas respectively.

There is also provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to receive a term that includes one or more keywords send a request to a web browser to request and receive via a network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term serve to the web browser a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser an instruction to display at least portions of the sets of content items in the content areas respectively receive from the web browser a a selection by a user of the web browser of at least one of the displayed content items and b an instruction by the user to synchronize one or more of the content areas with the selected content item and responsively to the selection and the instruction generate an updated term and send an instruction to the web browser to a request and receive via the network from the online content sources that generated the sets of content items displayed by the one or more content areas updated sets of content items generated in response to the updated term and b display at least portions of the updated sets of content items in the one or more content areas respectively.

There is further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to receive a term that includes one or more keywords request and receive via a network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term serve to a web browser a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which content areas display at least portions of the sets of content items respectively designate a exactly one of the content areas as an anchor content area associated with an anchor set of content items and b one or more of the content areas other than the anchor content area as synchronized content areas associated with respective synchronized sets of content items and periodically update some of the content areas by periodically updating the anchor set of content items by requesting the anchor set of content items from the one or more online content sources performing an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items generating an updated term responsively to the analysis requesting and receiving from the online content sources that generated the synchronized sets of content items updated synchronized sets of content items generated in response to the updated term updating the anchor content area by serving to the web browser at least a portion of the updated anchor set of content items for display in the anchor content area and automatically synchronizing the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by serving to the web browser at least portions of the updated synchronized sets of content items for display in the synchronize content areas respectively.

There is still further provided in accordance with an application of the present invention a computer software product including a tangible computer readable medium in which program instructions are stored which instructions when read by a computer cause the computer to receive a term that includes one or more keywords send an instruction to a web browser to request and receive via a network from a plurality of online content sources sets of one or more content items generated by the online content sources in response to the term serve to the web browser a plurality of content areas for display on a webpage displayed by the web browser which content areas display at least portions of the sets of content items respectively designate a exactly one of the content areas as an anchor content area associated with an anchor set of content items and b one or more of the content areas other than the anchor content area as synchronized content areas associated with respective synchronized sets of content items and periodically updating some of the content areas by periodically updating the anchor set of content items by sending an instruction to the web browser to request the anchor set of content items from the one or more online content sources performing an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items generating an updated term responsively to the analysis and sending an instruction to the web browser to a request and receive from the online content sources that generated the synchronized sets of content items updated synchronized sets of content items generated in response to the updated term b update the anchor content area to display at least a portion of the updated anchor set of content items and c automatically synchronize the synchronized content areas with the anchor content area by displaying at least portions of the updated synchronized sets of content items in the synchronize content areas respectively.

The present invention will be more fully understood from the following detailed description of embodiments thereof taken together with the drawings in which 

A plurality of users use respective devices such as portable communication devices e.g. Internet enabled cellular telephones or handheld computers or personal computers to remotely access portal server system via a network such as a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet. Devices are connected to WAN via wired connections wireless connections either local or wide area or a combination thereof. For example some of devices may be connected to WAN via a digital wireless cellular network. Alternatively one or more of users access portal server system via a local area network LAN or both a LAN and a WAN.

Portal server system typically comprises one or more standard computer servers with appropriate memory processor s communication interfaces and software for carrying out the functions prescribed by the present invention. This software may be downloaded to the systems in electronic form over a network for example or it may alternatively be supplied on tangible media such as CD ROM. Memory comprises a non volatile memory such as one or more hard disk drives and or a volatile memory such as random access memory RAM .

For some applications network environment further includes at least one website publisher which typically comprises one or more web servers. Website publisher serves i.e. delivers content to devices such as proprietary content or content aggregated from a plurality of content sources. For example publisher may provide a portal website such as a news portal. For some applications as described in more detail hereinbelow content and or browser executable code e.g. scripts is served i.e. delivered by portal server system to devices for display and or execution on webpages served by website publisher .

Typically a web browser running on each device communicates with portal server system and optionally website publisher and or content sources . Each of devices comprises a processor i.e. a central processing unit CPU system memory a non volatile memory such as a hard disk drive a display input and output means such as a touch screen keyboard touchpad and or a mouse and a network interface card NIC .

Reference is made to which is a schematic illustration of an exemplary screenshot of a web browser displaying a webpage that includes a plurality of content areas in accordance with an application of the present invention. For some applications portal server system generates and serves i.e. delivers webpage via at least one web server . For other applications website publisher generates and serves i.e. delivers webpage .

For some applications portal server system generates content areas for display on webpage . Content areas are typically delineated on the webpage as boxes as shown in or other regions having borders. The content areas may be implemented using a client side scripting language such as Javascript and or various HTML elements as is known in the art. The scripts of the content areas may communicate with system using protocols such as XML or JavaScript Object Notation JSON or other standard or proprietary data interchange formats.

For some applications one or more of content areas are generated and or implemented by respective applications running on respective servers which may for example be implemented using server side scripting in combination with any other programming language s . For example the servers may be part of portal server system or website publisher or may be hosted by a third party entity such as an online retailer an online publisher or an online advertiser. Portal server system and or web browser may utilize respective APIs of the third party servers.

For some applications portal server system serves i.e. delivers content areas to the web browser for display on webpage served by website publisher . The website publisher includes appropriate HTML elements and or scripts e.g. coded in JavaScript on webpage indicating to the browser the location and other information necessary for requesting the content areas from portal server system and properly displaying the content areas on the webpage. Alternatively or additionally portal server system serves i.e. delivers content areas to website publisher which in turn serves i.e. delivers the content areas to the user s browser. Optionally portal server system communicates with the browser via one or more commercial content delivery networks CDNs as is known in the art. Further alternatively or additionally neither portal server system nor website publisher serves content areas to the web browser. Instead an application running in the browser typically a client side script generates one or more of the content areas. The browser application communicates with portal server system e.g. using protocols described herein. In response to information and or instructions received from portal server the browser application directs the content areas to display content items and to perform the other actions of the content areas described herein. Typically the browser downloads the client application from portal server system or from website publisher .

Content areas display respective sets of content items requested from respective one or more online content sources . Optionally one or more of content items contain hyperlinks to webpages other than webpage as is known in the art. For some applications the content items are requested from online content sources by portal server system e.g. using a protocol such as XML JSON or SOAP. System in turn serves i.e. delivers all or a portion of the content items to the user s browser for display in content areas . Alternatively or additionally the content items are requested directly from online content sources by a client side script e.g. applet running in the web browser and provided by system . The web browser may communicate with the content sources using a protocol such as XML JSON or RSS. The script selects edits and or orders the content items in response to instructions provided by from system .

As described in more detail hereinbelow with reference to each of content areas typically displays only a portion of content items of the respective set for example exactly one of the content items or between two and five of the content items. Displaying content items as used in the present application including the claims is effectively accomplished by downloading an object such as hypertext or code e.g. a script written for example in JavaScript to web browser or another application running on user device which executes the object in order to display the content to the user of the web browser.

For some applications names of online content sources are displayed in association with respective content areas . Alternatively the names of the online content sources are not displayed. A generic name may instead be displayed for the category of content displayed in the content areas e.g. news video map wiki Web e.g. for Web search results or associations. For some applications system configures at least some of the content areas to have the look and feel of websites associated with respective online content sources . For example the content areas may display logos of the source websites and or use one or more colors associated with the source websites. Alternatively system does not maintain this look and feel as shown in . Optionally two different content areas display content received from the same online source typically in such a case the content is of different categories specific to the two content areas respectively.

Portal server system synchronizes the content areas with one another either automatically or in response to a user instruction to do so as described in detail hereinbelow. The portal server system typically generates the content areas on the fly based on interactions with each of users . The system updates at least some of the content areas periodically i.e. streams content such as in realtime or near realtime e.g. at least once per second such at least once per 100 milliseconds.

For some applications system provides the user the option to lock one or more of content areas . In response to an instruction from the user to do so the system withholds periodically updating the locked content areas while continuing to periodically update others of the content areas. Such locking enables the user to preserve the display of content of interest to the user. The system may set the default of each content area to locked or unlocked. A lock unlock icon may indicate whether a given area is locked.

Reference is made to which is a flow chart that illustrates a method for synchronizing content areas with one another in accordance with an application of the present invention. Method begins with the receipt by portal server system e.g. portal server thereof of an initial anchor term that comprises one or more keywords at an initial anchor term receipt step . In this context initial means before the term is updated e.g. at step below and does not preclude the receipt of additional anchor terms before receipt of the initial anchor term. The steps of method are typically performed iteratively to the extent desired by the user. For applications in which the anchor term is updated at step in each subsequent iteration of the method the updated anchor term generated at step typically serves as the initial anchor term at step .

For some applications the anchor term and other anchor terms described hereinbelow comprises an ordered or unordered collection of keywords which are optionally weighted. Alternatively or additionally the anchor term and other anchor terms described hereinbelow comprises an association graph of keywords i.e. the keywords are organized in an association graph such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087 filed Oct. 16 2008 which published as US Patent Application Publication 2009 0119261 to Ismalon and which is incorporated herein by reference and or one or more of the patent applications incorporated hereinbelow by reference.

For some applications system receives initial anchor term from user . For example the user may enter the term into an anchor area displayed on webpage which anchor area is separate from content areas . Anchor area is typically provided on webpage using techniques described hereinabove for providing content areas . For some applications system completes receiving initial anchor term only upon the user providing an indication that the complete anchor term has been entered such as by pressing the enter key on a keyboard or clicking on a button displayed on the webpage. For other applications system treats a first word entered by the user as initial anchor term even in the absence of an indication by the user. The system then typically appends each additional word entered by the user after the first word to form a longer updated anchor term which is processed by the system using the techniques used to process the initial anchor term. The system thus presents content related to the single word initial anchor term as described hereinbelow during the period before subsequent word s are added by the user and content related to the subsequent multi word anchor term s as the user enters the additional word s . The presented content is thus updated in realtime as the user continues to enter the anchor term. For some applications the system provides suggested autocomplete words or phrases as the user types in each word or phrase as is known in the search engine art for example using a dictionary and or popular or trendy search terms entered by other users and or based on a profile of the user or a community of users to which the user belongs . Optionally the system uses one or more of the autocomplete suggestions as the anchor term even before the user selects an autocomplete suggestion in order to provide the user with potential interesting content in content areas even before the user completes entering the term.

The user may change the anchor term during use of the system before during or after the system performs the method or method described hereinbelow with reference to . For example the user may change the anchor term by entering a new anchor term or by modifying the anchor term by selecting refinement terms as described hereinbelow with reference to regarding association area . Typically the system provides the user with the option of refreshing content items if the displayed content items do not match the user s current interests such as by clicking on a refresh button in anchor area .

For applications in which the user uses the anchor area for conducting a search the content areas of webpage provide the user with a panoramic holistic and comprehensive view of the search results thereby increasing the overall likelihood of the user finding the content he or she is seeking.

Alternatively system receives the initial anchor term from a source other than user such as a previously viewed webpage from which the user arrived at webpage . For example system may analyze the content of the previously viewed webpage to identify key terms on the webpage e.g. using latent semantic indexing LSI a latent Dirichlet allocation LDA or a bag of words approach or the system may use metadata available regarding the webpage e.g. a document association graph previously generated such as using techniques described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087 and or in one or more of the applications incorporated by reference hereinbelow. Further alternatively the system receives the initial anchor term by generating the term from a user profile of user a profile of a community of users to which the user belongs or a profile of all users for example using techniques described in one or more of the applications incorporated by reference hereinbelow.

Still further alternatively or additionally the system receives the initial anchor term by identifying or receiving a popular or trendy term. For example the term may be extracted from offline or online content e.g. using an API of a third party website or the system may derive the term by analyzing terms of interest to other users. For example the term may be extracted from analysis of trends in the Worldwide Web trends in social sites e.g. tweets or a publisher s website. The analysis may be performed by the system or by another source e.g. received by the system via an API provided by the other source. The content displayed in content areas is thus of relevance to the popular or trendy term that has been anchored i.e. serves as the current anchor term and thus provides the user with a panoramic holistic and comprehensive view of content related to the popular or trendy term. For some applications the system periodically updates the anchor term by identifying or receiving a currently popular or trendy term either automatically i.e. without being instructed to do so by the user or upon receiving a request from the user to do so. The system thus continuously streams content to content areas that is currently relevant to popular or trendy items of interest. Typically the system attempts to provide content of possible interest to the user even in the absence of feedback or instructions from the user. Typically the system defers to the user s directions such as entering a term or providing a synchronization instruction when the user provides such directions and uses other approaches to identify possibly relevant content and or keep the content fresh when the user does not provide directions. Thus unless indicated otherwise many actions performed in the methods described herein do not require input from the user such as entering text or clicking on search button as a condition for performance of the actions.

System does not necessarily display the anchor term to the user and webpage does not necessarily display anchor area . Such lack of display of the anchor term may be particularly appropriate for configurations of the system in which the anchor term is not entered or otherwise designated by the user.

At an initial content request step of method system requests and receives from one or more content sources respective initial sets of one or more content items related to the anchor term e.g. generated by the online content sources responsively to the anchor term content items are typically different from the anchor term . System requests and receives the content items by interacting with servers of online content sources typically via WAN . For some applications the system requests the sets of content items using respective search facilities of the online content sources by providing a search query based on initial anchor term . For example the system may use the search facility by sending HTTP requests to the content sources which HTTP requests request the content items and receiving the content items in response to the HTTP requests. For these application system appears to be a web browser to the online content sources. The online content source sites return webpages which the system parses to extract the content items. Alternatively or additionally system utilizes application programming interfaces APIs offered by the online content sources that include a method to receive the content items in response to submission of a query. System may communicate with the online content sources using protocols such as XML JSON or SOAP. Further alternatively or additionally for applications in which an online content source comprises a database such as a relational database system requests the sets of content items using a database query such as an SQL query.

As mentioned above each of content areas typically displays only a portion of content items of the respective set . For some applications in order to select the portion of the content items from a given set received from one or more content sources portal server system ranks the content items of the set and selects one or more of the highest ranked content items as the portion. Optionally the system performs such ranking responsively to a profile of the particular user a community of users to which the user belongs or the entire population of users of system such as using techniques described in the above referenced U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087 and or one or more of the other patent applications incorporated hereinbelow by reference. Alternatively or additionally the system ranks the content items by performing an analysis of at least a portion of the content items received from the online content sources and ranking responsively to the analysis. Alternatively some of the content areas display the entire respective sets of content items.

Alternatively or additionally a client side application typically a script executed by web browser requests and receives the respective initial sets of content items directly from one or more content sources . The client side application typically communicates with system which provides instructions to the application regarding the ranking of the content items how many and or which of the content items to display and or which portions of the content items to display. In order to enable system to provide such instructions the web browser may send initial sets to system and or system may receive initial sets directly from one or more content sources . Such communication may use protocols such as XML or JSON.

At a webpage generation step a webpage is generated which includes the plurality of content areas associated with respective initial sets . For some applications webpage is generated by system while for other applications webpage is generated by website publisher as described above. Web server of system or a web server of website publisher serves i.e. delivers the webpage to one of users at a webpage serving step . Typically system serves the content in realtime or near realtime i.e. streams the content such as within one second after requesting the respective content items from the content sources e.g. within 100 ms after requesting.

Typically web browser receives a portion of webpage before receiving the content areas and their content. As mentioned above the content areas may be implemented using a client side scripting language such as Javascript and or various HTML elements as is known in the art. An application typically a script executed by the web browser communicates with system to generate the content areas on webpage and receives the content items from system and or content sources as described above. For some applications system serves content areas to website publisher which in turn serves the content areas to the user s browser.

Initial content request step may be performed before after or at the same time as webpage generation and serving steps and .

Because system uses the same anchor term for requesting different categories of content from online content sources content areas display respective sets of content items that are related to although different from one another. For example respective ones of the content areas may display content of the following respective content categories 

Alternatively or additionally for some applications one or more of the content areas display content regarding a term other than the anchor term. The term may be generated by the system in response to a user instruction to synchronize one or more of the content areas with content of another content area such as described hereinbelow.

For some applications more than one content area display content items of the same category either provided by the same set of one or more online content sources or by different sets of one or more online content sources . For example this may enable a user to synchronize content of the same category between content areas provided by different content sources or even by the same content source s .

At a user synchronization instruction step system receives from the user a a selection of at least one e.g. exactly one of content items of a first one of initial sets shown in and b an instruction to synchronize one or more of content areas with the selected at least one of the content items. For some applications the system receives the selection and instruction directly or via a CDN from a script running on the user s web browser. For other applications the system receives the selection and instruction indirectly via website publisher for these applications the web browser sends the selection and instruction to website publisher which relays the selection and instruction to system . For some applications the user makes the selection by clicking on and or dragging a graphical element such as an icon displayed in association with the selected at least one of the content items. Optionally when the user moves the cursor over graphical element a mouse tip is displayed such as anchor it. For some applications a separate element is displayed in association with each of content items and or with each of content areas e.g. in the area or outside the area in a vicinity thereof . Alternatively or additionally the user makes the selection by clicking on and or dragging the selected at least one of content items itself i.e. the text and or video or still images that comprise the content item. Further alternatively or additionally the user makes the selection by clicking on and or dragging content area itself such as the entire content area or a portion thereof e.g. a border header or footer thereof. For some applications the at least one of content items is not displayed in any of content areas but is instead displayed elsewhere on webpage .

For some applications the user makes the selection and gives the synchronization instruction in a single action such as clicking on graphical element or the selected at least one of the content items. For other applications the user makes the selection and gives the instruction in separate actions such as clicking on element or the selected content item to make the selection and clicking on a separate graphical element and or dragging to give the instruction.

For some applications system receives the selection and synchronization instruction from user by receiving an indication of dragging by the user within the user s web browser of graphical element or the selected at least one e.g. exactly one of the content items and of dropping by the user of the dragged item into another area of webpage i.e. an area of the webpage at which the at least one of the content items is not displayed . For example the other area may be anchor area another of content areas a graphical element displayed in association with another of content areas or an empty area of webpage as described hereinbelow. Alternatively system receives the selection and synchronization instruction using other techniques known in the art for indicating selections in a web browser.

For some applications the user instruction received at step to synchronize one or more of content areas with the selected at least one of the content items may instruct the system to synchronize 

 a all of content areas including the area displaying the selected at least one of the content items 

 b all of content areas other than the area displaying the selected at least one of the content items 

For example for options a or b the user may instruct the system to synchronize the content areas by dragging graphical element or the selected at least one e.g. exactly one of the content items and dropping into anchor area which is displayed on the webpage separately from the content areas or an empty area of webpage . For option c the user may instruct the portal server system to synchronize a particular content area by dragging element or the selected at least one e.g. exactly one of the content items and dropping into the particular content area or a graphical element displayed in association with the particular content area. For option d the user may instruct the portal server system to synchronize the content area displaying the selected at least one e.g. exactly one of the content items by clicking on a graphical element displayed in association with the area such as in the area e.g. labeled similar. Examples of the synchronization in accordance with options a and c are provided hereinbelow with reference to .

For some applications responsively to the selection and the synchronization instruction system generates an updated term at an updated term generation step . Typically the system generates the updated term related to e.g. responsively to the selected at least one of content items . For example the system may generate the updated term by 

When generating the updated term the system may optionally take into account a profile of the user a profile of a community of users to which the user belongs or a global profile of all users of the system such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087 and or one or more of the patent applications incorporated hereinbelow by reference. Optionally for applications in which the anchor term is being updated the system generates the updated anchor term partially responsively to keywords of the anchor term prior to its being updated.

For example the system may generate the updated anchor term based on an intersection of i an association graph associated with the at least one of content items and ii semantic information provided by an API of the respective content source taking into account a profile of the user a profile of a community to which the user belongs and or a global profile of all users of the system for example using techniques described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087. For some applications the system generates a plurality of anchor terms and at step below requests and receives respective updated sets of content for the anchor terms combines the updated sets for each content area and ranks the combined sets for example using techniques described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087 e.g. with reference to thereof .

Reference is still made to . When the user instruction received at step instructs the system to synchronize all of content areas including or excluding the selected area in accordance with options a or b described hereinabove respectively the system causes web browser to display in content areas to be synchronized respective updated sets of content items that are related to the selected at least one e.g. exactly one of the content items. Two or more content items are related to one another because they are connected by shared characteristics. For example the content items may include be characterized by be tagged with and or be associated with one or more of the same terms i.e. set of one or more keywords and or one or more of the same topics. Alternatively or additionally the content items may be related to one another and or associated with one another for example as derived using one or more association graphs such as using techniques described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087 and or one or more of the patent applications incorporated hereinbelow by reference. Alternatively or additionally the content items may be related to one another if a number of users have expressed an interest in both of the content items such as by selecting both of the content items or transitioning from viewing one content item to viewing the other content item. As described herein the system may cause the web browser to display the content items by sending the content items to the browser in a format indicative to the browser to display the content e.g. tagged with appropriate HTML elements and or by providing instructions to the web browser to download the content items from one or more online sources .

For some applications in order to generated the updated sets of content items that are related to the selected at least one of the content items the system updates the anchor term at step in order to generated an updated anchor term. In these cases at an updated content request step system requests and receives respective updated sets of content items related to e.g. generated responsively to the updated anchor term content items are typically different from the updated anchor term . The system requests these updated sets from the one or more content sources that respectively generated initial sets of content items displayed by the one or more of content areas selected by the user at user synchronization instruction step i.e. in accordance with option a or b described hereinabove . The system typically requests these updated sets using the same techniques used for requesting the initial sets at initial content request step . The system updates the one or more of the content areas to display at least portions of the updated sets of content items respectively at an update content areas step . Alternatively a client side application typically a script executed by web browser requests and receives the respective updated sets of content items directly from content sources . The client side application typically communicates with system which provides instructions to the application regarding the ranking of the content items how many and or which of the content items to display and or which portions of the content items to display. In order to enable system to provide such instructions the web browser may send updated sets to system and or system may receive updated sets directly from content sources . Such communication may use protocols such as XML or JSON.

For some applications in which the initial anchor term is displayed to the user in anchor area the system updates the anchor area to display the updated anchor term. The system typically updates the anchor area for application in which the user drags element or the selected at least one of the content items into the anchor area as described hereinabove. Alternatively the system does not update the anchor area and continues to display the initial anchor term in the area even after the updated anchor term has been generated. Further alternatively the system ceases to display the initial anchor term in the area but does not display the updated anchor term.

Alternatively when the user instruction received at step instructs the system to synchronize a particular one of the other content areas with the selected at least one of the content items option c such as by dragging element or the selected at least one of the content items and dropping into the particular content area the system causes web browser to display in the particular content area an updated set of content items that are related to the selected at least one e.g. exactly one of the content items.

For some applications in order to generate the updated set of content items that are related to the selected at least one of the content items the system generates an updated term at step for the selected particular one of the other content areas the term is considered updated because the content of the particular content area was previously generated based on anchor term or another term generated by the system in response to the user s previous instructions . In this case at updated content request step the updated term is typically used to request and receive exactly one updated set of content items for the selected particular one of the other content areas. The updated term is generally different from anchor term used to generate content for some or all of the other content areas. As the user continues to synchronize various ones of the content areas additional content areas may be assigned their own unique terms. This user behavior may result in local synchronization of one or more pairs of content areas but a lack of global synchronization between the content areas. Optionally the system provides the user with the option of globally resynchronizing all of the content areas such as by dragging a content item or a graphical element associated with a content item into anchor area and or clicking on an icon or button in anchor area that instructs the system to refresh the content areas based on the anchor term currently displayed in anchor area .

Optionally for applications in which the user instructs the system to synchronize a particular one of the other content areas option c at updated content request step system when requesting respective an updated set of content items related to the updated term takes into account content items currently displayed in the particular one of the other content areas i.e. prior to the current update content items are typically different from the updated term . For example the system may request the updated set using a combination of the updated term and one or more additional terms representative of the content items currently displayed in the particular one of the content areas. The system may for example ascertain these additional terms by analyzing the currently displayed content items such as using techniques described hereinabove at updated term generation step and or by taking all or a portion of a previous anchor term used to generate the currently displayed content items. For some applications this technique may be used when more than one content area display content items of the same category as described above. For example if a user drags a content item from a first content area displaying social networking content to second content area also displaying social networking content received from the same or a different social network the one or more content items displayed in the second content area may be updated to reflect a combination of characteristics of the content item dragged into the second content area and the content previously displayed in the second content area. Alternatively the system does not take into account the content items currently displayed in the particular one of the other content areas.

For some applications system updates advertising content displayed in an advertising content area in response to the synchronization instructions received at user synchronization instruction step . The system may perform such updating regardless of the user s particular instruction regarding which content areas to update. Alternatively or additionally the system may perform such updating in response to a specific user request indicated for example by the user s dragging into advertising content area element the selected at least one of the content items or graphical element described hereinbelow with reference to . For example the advertising content may be updated by sending a request to an ad server using the updated anchor term. For some applications the advertising content is provided and updated using techniques described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 023 564 filed Jan. 31 2008 which published as US Patent Application Publication 2008 0215416 to Ismalon and which is incorporated herein by reference. For example advertising content area may comprise an interactive advertisement as described in the 416 publication. Optionally a search field of the interactive advertisement is populated using one or more of the keywords of the current anchor term or a term derived from a content item dragged into the interactive advertisement such as described hereinabove.

For some applications portal server system periodically updates the content items displayed in one or more of the content areas typically without requiring webpage to be again served in its entirety. The portal server system performs such automatic updating without requiring an action to be performed by the user e.g. the user does not need to click on or otherwise activate an update or search button or icon and the user does not need to refine a search. For some applications system periodically requests updated content items from respective one or more online content sources and updates the respective content areas to display the updated content items typically without requiring webpage to be again served in its entirety. The portal server system thus presents the user with realtime or near realtime content e.g. at least once every minute once every 30 seconds or once every 10 seconds. The displayed content may change for example because the online content sources indexes new content. Alternatively or additionally for some applications the portal server system updates the content items displayed in one or more of the content areas by displaying a different subset of the content items previously received from the respective one or more online content sources. For example the portal server system may automatically change the ranking of the content items in a given content area for example based on interactions of other users with the content such as other users on the Web and or other users of the portal server system. Because only a small subset that includes the highest ranked content items received from a given set of one or more online content sources is typically displayed in a content area changing the ranking generally causes a different subset of the content items to be displayed. Alternatively system instructs one or more client side applications typically a scripts executed by web browser to periodically update the content items displayed in one or more of the content areas.

Reference is now made to which is a flow chart that illustrates a method for synchronizing content areas with one another in accordance with an application of the present invention. In this application exactly one of content areas serves as an anchor content area and at least some of the other content areas are synchronized with this anchor content area. For some applications portal server system implements at least a portion of the techniques both of method described hereinabove with reference to and of method . For example the system may allow the user to select which of the techniques to perform at any given time. Because there is some overlap between the techniques of methods and as described hereinbelow the system may utilize the overlapping steps for performing both methods.

Method begins with the same first four steps as method namely initial anchor term receipt step initial content request step webpage generation step and webpage serving step as described hereinabove with reference to . As mentioned above these steps are not necessarily performed in this order. Alternatively the content in one or more of the content areas is not related to the anchor term.

Method continues with the designation typically by system and or web browser of exactly one of the content areas as an anchor content area at an anchor area designation step . For example a social updates content area is shown as anchor content area in . For some applications the designation is performed in response to a user command selecting a particular one of the areas as the anchor area. For example the user may click on an icon or selection area associated with the desired area. Optionally the system makes fewer than all of the areas available for selection as an anchor area typically only those areas are made available that display content items that change frequently at the respective one or more online sources . Anchor content area is associated with an anchor set of content items .

One or more of content areas other than anchor content area are designated typically by system and or web browser as synchronized content areas at a synchronized areas designation step . For example a wiki content area an advertisement area a news area and a video area are shown as synchronized content areas in . For some applications the designation is performed in response to a user command selecting the synchronized areas. For example the user may click on respective icons or selection areas associated with the desired areas. For other applications the system automatically designates all or a portion of the content areas other than anchor content area as synchronized areas . Synchronized content areas are associated with respective synchronized sets of content items .

At a content area update step system periodically updates some of content areas in synchronization. To do so at an anchor set update step system updates anchor set of content items by requesting the anchor set of content items from the respective one or more online content sources using the techniques of initial content request step described hereinabove with reference to . Anchor set may change for example because online content sources have indexed new content since the system last requested content items and or because the online content sources have changed the ranking of provided content since the system last requested content items . For example if social updates content area is designated as anchor content area the social content provided as content items by online content sources may change frequently based on social updates provided by social network members.

For some applications the system performs such updating automatically. The term automatically as used in the present application including the claims means without receiving a specific command from the user to perform the particular update but does not preclude receiving a configuration or instruction from the user to periodically perform such updates. For example such updating may be performed at a rate of at least once every 30 seconds no more than once every 5 minutes and or once every 30 seconds to once every 5 minutes. The rate is set to be fast enough to provide the user with generally constantly updated content but slow enough to allow the user to read and understand the updated content before it is again updated. Optionally the system allows the user to set the rate. For some applications the system calculates the rate based on for example the average length of the content e.g. a user can read a tweet more quickly than a wiki entry . The rate may be either variable or fixed. Alternatively or additionally the system calculates the rate based on observed user behavior such as the speed of a particular user s interaction with content or an average for a group of the users . The system may calculate an amount of time sufficient to present information in each of the different content areas. Alternatively the system performs such updating upon receiving a command from the user to do so e.g. an indication that the user has clicked on a right or down arrow.

System performs an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items and generates an updated anchor term responsively to the analysis at an update anchor term step . Typically the system generates the updated anchor term responsively to the one or more content items displayed in anchor content area . For example the system may extract keywords that characterize the one or more displayed content items from the content items or from the context in which the one or more content items were presented by its online content source . Such keywords may for example be determined using latent semantic indexing LSI a latent Dirichlet allocation LDA and or a bag of words. Alternatively or additionally the system generates the updated anchor term using an association graph associated by system with the content items such as using techniques described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087 and or one or more of the patent applications incorporated hereinbelow by reference. Further alternatively or additionally the system generates the updated anchor term using semantic information provided by an API of the respective content source . Further alternatively or additionally the system generates the updated anchor term responsively to keywords or terms of topics that characterize the content for example determined using topic identification techniques described in one or more of the patent applications incorporated hereinbelow by reference.

Optionally when generating the updated anchor term the system may analyze only a highest ranked portion of content items of the anchor content set e.g. only those content items selected for display in anchor content area . For example the portal server system may automatically change the ranking of the content items in a given content area for example based on interactions of other users with the content such as other users on the Web and or other users of the portal server system. Thus the anchor term may change based on an updated ranking of the content items even if there has been little or no change to the complete set of content items received from the one or more online content sources.

When generating the updated anchor term the system may optionally take into account a profile of the user a profile of a community of users to which the user belongs or a global profile of all users of the system such as described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087 and or one or more of the other patent applications incorporated hereinbelow by reference. Optionally the system generates the updated anchor term partially responsively to keywords of the anchor term prior to its being updated.

For some applications in which the initial anchor term is displayed to the user in anchor area the system may update the anchor area to display the updated anchor term. Alternatively the system does not update the anchor area and continues to display the initial anchor term in the area even after the anchor term has been updated.

At an updated content request step system requests and receives respective updated synchronized sets of content items in response to an analysis of the updated anchor set of content items . Typically the analysis identifies for inclusion in synchronized sets and or for display in the synchronized content areas content items that are related to the content items of updated anchor set . For some applications system requests and receives respective updated synchronized sets of content items generated responsively to the updated anchor term. The system requests these updated sets from the one or more content sources that respectively initially generated the synchronized sets of content items . The system typically requests these updated sets using the same techniques used for requesting the initial sets at initial content request step described hereinabove with reference to . Alternatively one or more client side applications typically a scripts executed by web browser requests and receives the respective updated synchronized sets of content items directly from content sources . The client side application typically communicates with system which provides instructions to the application regarding the ranking of the content items how many and or which of the content items to display and or which portions of the content items to display. In order to enable system to provide such instructions the web browser may send updated synchronized sets to system and or system may receive updated synchronized sets directly from content sources . Such communication may use protocols such as XML or JSON.

System updates anchor content area to display at least a portion of the updated anchor set of content items at an update anchor content area step . At a synchronization step system automatically synchronizes synchronized content areas to display at least portions of updated synchronized sets of content items respectively. Typically system performs steps and without requiring webpage to be again served in its entirety. For some applications the server synchronizes the synchronized content areas at once every minute no more than one every five minutes and or once every one to five minutes. This rate generally maintains the relevance of synchronized content areas to the current content of anchor area while providing the user with sufficient time to view the content in the synchronized areas before it changes yet again.

As a result of this synchronization one or more of the synchronized content areas displays content of potential relevance to the user in light of the content currently displayed in the anchor content area. As the content in the anchor area changes the content in the synchronized content areas is automatically updated to be of continued relevance. The content displayed in the synchronized content areas thus may serve to provide the user with a better understanding of the content being streamed in the anchor content area.

For example assume that anchor content area in comprises a social updates content area and that synchronized content areas in comprise a wiki content area an advertisement area a news area and a video area . Further assume that social updates content area is updated to display a content item that discusses a certain person. As a result system analyzes the updated content item and identifies the name of the person or an association graph associated with the person as an updated anchor term. The system uses the updated anchor term to retrieve content items regarding the person from respective one or more online sources for synchronized content areas . The system automatically updates synchronized content areas to display at least a portion of these updated content items. For example the system may update wiki content area to display an abstract of a wiki article about the person advertisement area to display an advertisement related to the person news area to display headlines regarding the person and or video area to display one or more videos of the person.

For some applications the advertising content displayed in advertisement area is updated using techniques described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 023 564.

For some applications system provides the user the option to lock one or more of content areas . In response to an instruction from the user to do so the system withholds periodically updating the locked content areas at step while continuing to periodically others of the content areas at step . Such locking enables the user to preserve the display of content of interest to the user.

The techniques of method may be performed in combination with those of method described hereinabove with reference to or may be performed separately. For example the user may designate one of content areas as anchor area and also provide an instruction to synchronize the content of one or more of the areas with a content item displayed in the anchor area or in another of the areas.

Reference is again made to . As can be seen in the figure the graphical user interface GUI provided by portal server system comprises content areas and optionally anchor area which are configured to provide the functionality described herein. Optionally the GUI comprises additional elements and or provides additional functionality as described below.

For some applications system provides at least one of content areas with a search field . After the webpage and content area are served to the web browser system receives a search query entered by the user into search field . Responsively to the search query system updates the portion of content items displayed in the content area by receiving new content items from respective one or more content sources in response to the search query. For some applications system performs the search using only the terms of the search query entered by the user while for other applications the system adds context to the search query based on the content items already displayed in the content area. This search functionality allows the user to change his or her interests only for a particular content area while preserving different interests for other content areas. For some applications the system provides search functionality that provides additional similar content items by performing a context based search of the content displayed in the content area. The system may provide the areas with an icon that allows the user to request such similar content e.g. labeled similar .

For some applications when performing method described hereinabove with reference to or method described hereinabove with reference to system is configured to receive a request from the user to enlarge one of content areas . Responsively to the request the system enlarges the one of the content areas and optionally reduces respective sizes of others of the content areas in order to make room on webpage for the enlarged area. Optionally the user may request that the selected content area be resized to occupy most of webpage in which case the system may display icons representing the other content areas such as in tray described hereinbelow. This feature may be particularly useful when webpage is displayed on a portable communication device having a relatively small display screen such as a cellular phone. The system may also enable to rearrange and or otherwise customize the arrangement location or appearance of the content areas or webpage including deciding which content areas to include. The system may provide a large number of content areas and allow the user to select a portion of the content areas for inclusion on the webpage. Alternatively or additionally the system may personalize the webpage arrangement including which content areas to present based on the user s behavior usage or profile. For applications in which website publisher serves webpage the website publisher may perform or assist in the performance of the techniques described in this paragraph.

For some applications when performing method described hereinabove with reference to or method described hereinabove with reference to system is configured to set respective levels of prominence of at least some of content areas responsively to respective levels of relevancy of the respective sources to the initial or updated anchor term for example determined by the system using techniques described in one or more of the patent applications incorporated by reference hereinbelow. For example the system may set the levels of prominence by setting sizes colors or other features of the areas or by highlighting certain of the areas. For applications in which website publisher serves webpage the website publisher may perform or assist in the performance of the techniques described in this paragraph.

For some applications system configures content areas to provide functionality for receiving a user request to display additional content items such as a next previous icon set. Typically each content area displays between one and three content items at any given time although a content area may sometimes display no content items in which case the system typically displays a message apologizing for not finding any results or more than three content items. For some applications a content area displays one primary content item with a relatively high level of detail and one or more secondary content items with a relatively low level of detail e.g. synopsized. These secondary content items may for example be displayed near the bottom of the area. For some applications system configures content areas to provide an expansion icon. Upon selection of the icon by the user the system expands the area and typically displays additional content items in the area such as between five and ten content items. Alternatively or additionally the system allows the user to adjust the size of the area such as by stretching the borders of the area and the number of content items displayed in the area is set according to the set size of the area. For applications in which website publisher serves webpage the website publisher may perform or assist in the performance of the techniques described in this paragraph.

For some applications system provides content areas with an icon to close the area and or an icon to minimize the area. For some applications in response to a user request to minimize the area the system removes the area from the main area of webpage and creates an icon representing the area in a tray shown in . In general tray may include icons indicative of all inactive applications or content sources . For some applications if the system ascertains that a content source associated with an icon in the tray may provide content that is likely to be of interest to the user the system provides an indication to the user such as by causing the associated icon to blink or the system automatically restores the content area of the content source. For some applications system generates a new content area on the fly such as if the system ascertains that a particular content area or category of content area would likely display content of relevance to the current anchor term. For example the system may generate a a new content area displaying content received from an online retailer if the system ascertains that the current anchor term is relevant to merchandise sold by the retailer b a new content area displaying content received from an online map provider if the system ascertains that the current anchor term is a geographical location or c a new content area displaying advertising content received from an online advertisement provider if the system ascertains that the current anchor term is relevant to advertisement content provided by the online advertisement provider. For applications in which website publisher serves webpage the website publisher may perform or assist in the performance of the techniques described in this paragraph.

For some applications one or more of content areas and or content items are served by a server separate from system such as a third party server operated by an entity different from the entity operating system . For example the third party entity may be an online retailer or an online publisher. System alerts the separate server of requested changes in content as the system performs the methods described herein.

Reference is again made to . For some applications system provides an association area which allows the user to navigate based on associations and or set a level of personalization such as described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087 and or one or more of the other patent applications incorporated hereinbelow by reference. For example the association area may provide a set of one or more refinement terms based on the current anchor term such as using techniques described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087 and or one or more of the other patent applications incorporated hereinbelow by reference. If the user selects one of refinement terms such as by clicking on the term and or dragging the term into anchor area system uses the selected term as a new anchor term such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 846 213 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 756 855 and is incorporated herein by reference adds the selected term to the current anchor term such as described in the 087 and 213 applications or replaces a portion of the current anchor term with the selected term such as described in the 213 application . The system uses the resulting updated anchor term to update content items at step of methods and described hereinabove with reference to respectively. If the user selects one of refinement terms and provides an instruction to synchronize one of content areas with the selected term such as by dragging the term into the selected area system synchronizes the selected content area by updating the content items at step of method described hereinabove with reference to using the selected term as a new anchor term for the area.

For some applications system provides a question area shown in . The system uses the area to ask the user questions generally in order to help the system focus or refine the user s search and or interests. The system may attempt to ascertain user interests and verify that the interests have been accurately ascertained in order to provide the user with relevant content of interest. For some applications the system uses the area to ask the user yes no questions or like dislike questions e.g. Are you still interested in . . . For example the system may ask the user whether he or she intended to search for a particular term such as a particular person e.g. Are you interested in . . . or Do you know . . . If the user replies in the affirmative the system uses the proposed term as an updated anchor term. For some applications the system extracts name entities i.e. names of people from content. When formulating the questions the system may take into account popular or trendy terms. For some applications the system attempts to ascertain the user s interest using a personal profile of the user a profile of a community of users to which the user belongs or a profile of all users for example using techniques described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 253 087 and or one or more of the other patent applications incorporated hereinbelow by reference.

For some applications a user arrives at webpage by executing a search on a site affiliated with the publisher of webpage clicking on a link provided by a search engine external to the publisher of webpage or clicking on a graphical element on a webpage associated with one of online content sources .

For some applications the system enables sharing of content with friends in one or more social networks by allowing the user to drag and drop the content in one or more social network areas which display content received from the same or different social networks. For some applications content item comprises an identifier of a social network member which may be represented for example by the member s name and or photo. For some applications at updated term generation step of method described hereinabove with reference to the system generates the updated term by exacting one or more keywords from a profile of the member provided by the member to the social network and or by analyzing the interactions of the member with other members of the social network. For some applications these keywords are extracted using techniques described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 397 510 filed Mar. 4 2009 which published as US Patent Application Publication 2009 0228296 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Reference is now made to which are schematic illustration of exemplary screenshots of web browser displaying webpage in accordance with respective applications of the present invention. shows an exemplary screenshot generated at steps through of method described hereinabove with reference to using computer software as initial anchor term . Content areas display content items related to this initial anchor term. By way of example and not limitation the content areas may display the content set forth in Table A 

In response to this instruction at step of method system generates an updated anchor term in this example Computer Neuron brain and displays the updated anchor term in anchor area as shown . The system updates the content items displayed in all of content areas at steps and of method also as shown in . By way of example and not limitation the content areas may now display the content set forth in Table B 

In response to this instruction at step of method system generates an updated term for the blog content area. The system updates the content items displayed in the blog content area at steps and of method as shown in . By way of example and not limitation all of the content areas except the blog content area may continue to display the content set forth in Table B i.e. do not change in response to this user instruction and the blog content area may now display the content set forth in Table C 

Of note this user instruction caused synchronization of only the blog content area with the selected content item and did not cause synchronization of any of the other content areas or change anchor term .

Reference is made to which is a schematic illustration of a graphical user interface GUI displaying web browser in a window in accordance with an application of the present invention. In addition to the window of web browser GUI displays at a location other than in web browser at least one graphical element associated with a content item. For example the location may be on a desktop displayed by the GUI including the desktop i.e. the background portion of the display of a portable computing device such as an iPhone or iPad Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. . For clarity of illustration the text within the content areas displayed on webpage although actually present is not shown this text can be seen in . Graphical element may include image elements textual elements and or a combination of image and graphical elements. For example graphical element may be selected from the group consisting of 

The user provides an instruction to system to synchronize all or a portion of content areas displayed on webpage with the content item such as by dragging graphical element and dropping the graphical element on webpage . As described hereinabove with reference to at step of method the user instruction may instruct the system to synchronize a all of content areas or b a particular one of content areas . For example for option a the user may instruct the system to synchronize the content areas by dragging and dropping graphical element into anchor area which is displayed on the webpage separately from the content areas or an empty area of webpage . For option c the user may instruct the portal server system to synchronize a particular content area by dragging and dropping element into the particular content area or a graphical element displayed in association with the particular area.

Upon receiving the instruction from the user the system causes web browser to display in the one or more content areas to be synchronized respective updated sets of content items that are related to the selected content item represented in the GUI e.g. on the desktop . the system generates an updated term such as using one or more of the techniques described hereinabove with reference to at updated term generation step of method except that the system performs these term extraction techniques with respect to the content associated with graphical element rather than the at least one of content items mentioned hereinabove in the description of these techniques. The system uses the updated term to synchronize all or a particular one of content areas in accordance with user s instruction such as described hereinabove with reference to at steps and of method .

As used in the present application including in the claims clicking on an element of a webpage means pointing at the element such as using a mouse stylus or other pointing device and pressing a button on the mouse or other pointing device or otherwise indicating selection of the item such as by double tapping a pointing device or touching e.g. tapping double tapping or making other finger motions to a touch sensitive display using a finger or pointing device or using other techniques known in the art for selecting the element of a webpage in a manner analogous to mouse clicking.

For some applications as mentioned above with reference to one or more of content areas are generated and or implemented by respective applications running on respective servers. Such applications may enable content areas to provide the users with interactive experiences with content items displayed in content areas including the execution of transactions such as purchase transactions. The server applications select which content items to display in content areas in response to terms and updated terms e.g. initial and updated anchor terms provided to the server applications by server system and or web browser using any of the techniques described hereinabove e.g. upon receipt of a user synchronization instruction upon an automatic synchronization e.g. as described with reference to or upon the user providing a new anchor term . For example one of content areas may be an online retailer which displays items of merchandise as content items in a content area . The server application selects which content items to display based on terms provided by server system as described hereinabove. The server application may also populate a search field displayed in content area responsively to terms provided by the server system.

Techniques of applications of the present invention may improve the efficiency of accessing content from multiple web sources and conserve the use of computer resources.

Embodiments of the present invention described herein can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment including both hardware and software elements. In an embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the embodiments of the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can comprise store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium.

Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Typically the operations described herein that are performed by system transform the physical state of memory which is a real physical article to have a different magnetic polarity electrical charge or the like depending on the technology of the memory that is used.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. The system can read the inventive instructions on the program storage devices and follow these instructions to execute the methodology of the embodiments of the invention.

Input output I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

It will be understood that each block of the flowcharts shown in and combinations of blocks in the flowchart can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart blocks.

The scope of the present invention includes embodiments described in the following applications which are assigned to the assignee of the present application and are incorporated herein by reference. In an embodiment techniques and apparatus described in one or more of the following applications are combined with techniques and apparatus described herein 

U.S. patent application Publication Ser. No. 12 801 534 filed Jun. 14 2010 entitled Generation of refinement terms for search queries which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 429 184 to Ismalon.

It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to what has been particularly shown and described hereinabove. Rather the scope of the present invention includes both combinations and subcombinations of the various features described hereinabove as well as variations and modifications thereof that are not in the prior art which would occur to persons skilled in the art upon reading the foregoing description.

