---

title: Web-based recruitment system
abstract: A method and system for facilitating the hiring and recruitment of candidates for a particular position. The system would include information relating to the skill level and expertise of various candidates irrespective of a particular job. The candidates will have their various skills assessed through the use of an anonymous assessor. The assessor would provide the system with a rating of each candidate's various assessed skills. The candidate has the option to have this assessment evaluated by a disinterested third party. A client or employer would access the system for the purpose of receiving a listing of potential candidates, their skill levels as well as assessments. The client will provide the system with a list of potential candidates to the position. The clients would utilize this information to hire a particular candidate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08655793&OS=08655793&RS=08655793
owner: 
number: 08655793
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20110103
---
The present invention is directed to a method and system for assessing the skill level of a candidate as well as providing a list of candidates and their assessments to an employer or client interested in hiring an individual for a position.

Historically recruiting and hiring an individual for a particular position in a company was time consuming and did not necessarily result in the hiring of an appropriate individual for a particular position. If an employer which is referred to as a client for the purposes of explaining the present invention wishes to hire an individual for a particular position such a position would generally be listed for example in a number of trade publications or an employment counselor would be hired to provide the client with a list of potential candidates for the position. The client would then be provided with resumes from the employment counselor or directly from the candidates. These resumes would be reviewed and interviews would be conducted by the client to determine the proper candidate for the position. This type of hiring process relies heavily on the client assessing the skills of each of the candidates. Advertising the various positions as well as assessing the candidate s ability to perform the job can be quite expensive and time consuming.

Lately the utilization of computers and the internet has been employed to shorten and streamline the recruitment process. Various job positions are advertised in one of a plurality of job recruitment websites. A particular candidate would electronically transmit their resume directly to the client for evaluation. Based upon this evaluation the client would then contact an appropriate candidate or candidates to schedule either a personal interview or employ a teleconference to interview the candidates. Based upon the resume and the interview scheduled between the client and the candidate a determination would be made as to whether a particular candidate would be offered the position.

Additionally a number of patent references describe a system utilizing a computerized database as well as the internet to facilitate the hiring process. However these references are generally job based and do not provide any assessment of the candidate s skill level irrespective of a particular employment position. For example U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0050816 to Givens et al. describes a system and method for utilizing a network based computer system for determining whether a particular candidate should be hired for a particular employment. Once a client receives a request from a candidate for the particular job position a computerized interface component would present to the candidate a predetermined skilled test that is selected based upon the position requested by the candidate. This skill test would then be scored based upon responses made by the candidate the score then presented to the client. It is important to note that any assessment that the Givens et al. system makes is related to a particular job position and not an overall assessment of the skills of the candidate.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 653 567 to Gorham describes an integrated online job recruitment system including a job database extracting key words from job postings. A query is made by a potential job seeker and a search engine returns its results or gives prominent placement to one or more job postings sponsored by a recruiter. This system requires that the candidate would query the system and not the client. Additionally no assessment is made regarding the skills of the candidate.

The deficiencies of the prior art are addressed by the present invention which is directed to a system and method of producing a database capable of being reviewed by a client seeking to hire a candidate for a particular job position. The database would include at least one assessment of the particular skills of a candidate. This assessment would not be job based but would be prepared by an assessor based upon particular skills presented by the candidate either after the candidate is interviewed by the assessor or based on other artifacts like a white paper presented by the candidate for assessment. This assessment is then reviewed by the candidate who has the option of having an evaluator review the assessment. This system would give each candidate the opportunity of improving his or her skill levels based upon the assessor s assessment as well as the evaluator s evaluation of that assessment. The candidates would then endeavor to improve their skills in many different ways such as to take various courses or to be mentored by a mentor. Once the candidate believes that his or her skills have been improved another assessment may be requested by the candidate. If this new assessment was for the same skill or skill set originally assessed and if the candidate agrees with this new assessment it would be substituted for the old assessment. It is important to note that the present system is not job based and each of the candidates applies to be included in the system irrespective of any particular position of employment.

A client who wishes to utilize the system would then enter certain criteria into the system. The criteria would be searched and a list of candidates would be provided to the client along with the ratings by the assessor or evaluator. The client would then review this list of candidates and may arrange to interview any of the candidates of interest within the system. If the client is then satisfied with at least one of the candidates contact information of the candidates can be provided by the system.

The system and method of the present invention would significantly reduce the cost and time it takes for hiring the appropriate individual while insuring a much better quality in the assessment of the candidates. The client does have the ability to see all the facts and factors that lead to the selection or rejection of candidates if hiring managers are employed. This system employs data within the system or sources outside the system and guides candidates on a potential career path with significant relevance to current market realities. Therefore the candidate would be apprised of its position for potential opportunities and helps the candidate work toward qualifying himself or herself better for these opportunities.

These and still other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the description of the following preferred embodiment.

Based upon the information provided to the client at Steps and the client has the option of choosing one or more candidates as well as requiring additional assessments to be made on one or more skill levels by an additional assessor at Step . The client himself would then proceed to Step or would utilize a client s account manager to actually choose or limit the candidates initially chosen at Step . If the client requested further assessment these assessments would be scheduled at Step .

Each candidate at Step is informed of a client s interest. If the client requested additional assessments these assessments would also be scheduled at Step . Once this occurs any additional assessments at Step would be conducted and the results would then be sent to the client or the client s account manager. Based upon all of the information that was now provided to the client a choice of a candidate or candidates will be made at Step . As will be subsequently explained once this choice is made the client would then determine whether a contract facilitator to negotiate an employment contract with a potential employee would be needed at Step . If this is not the case the client would begin their own negotiations with the chosen candidate or candidates. However if a contract facilitator is needed the client or the client s account manager would be given a choice of the contract facilitator s at Step . Step would notify the client or the client s account manager of the chosen contract facilitators and the particular parameters of the contract to be negotiated. The particular contract facilitators along with the terms of the contract would be sent to the candidate at Step . The candidate at Step would then choose a particular contract facilitator at Step and negotiations between the candidate the client or the client s contract facilitator would be consummated at Step . The use of the client s account manager and contract facilitator will be subsequently discussed in more detail.

The assessment process at Step is initiated by the candidate at Step which could include the candidate s schedule for being set. The system at Step would provide the candidate with the schedule as well as attributes of a number of anonymous assessors. The candidate at Step would then choose one or more assessors and a schedule of times to be assessed. If more than one assessor is chosen by the candidate the candidate is presented to each of these assessors. Each of the assessors would then indicate whether they have the ability and interest to schedule an assessment with the candidate at Step . Based upon various factors such as the type of skills to be assessed the type of assessor as well as the type of candidate the system at Step would present to the candidate the assessor which is the best match. The system at Step would then schedule an assessment between the assessor and the candidate. These assessments are generally based upon a telephonic or internet based conference between the assessor and the candidate at Step . Both the assessor and the candidate remain anonymous during the course of this conference. As will be subsequently explained in more details an assessment facilitator would be used to help arrange the assessment.

The conference could take the form of a telephone interview or an internet based interview. Based upon this interview the assessor would rate the candidate based upon one or more skills and the assessor would enter his or her comments. The rating as well as the comments provided by the assessor would be reviewed by the candidate at Step . If the candidate does not refute the assessment at Step the assessment ends and the assessment including the recording of the conference as well as the rating and the assessor s comments would be sent to the system at Step . If the candidate does not dispute the assessment the candidate still has the option of disabling the publication of the assessment at Step or sometime later. At this point the assessor would be notified that the assessment while not being disputed would not be included in the system.

If the candidate does dispute the assessment the candidate will be provided with a list of anonymous evaluators at Step . Similar to the candidate being provided with the assessor s profiles a Step the candidate at Step would be provided with the profiles of each of the evaluators. The candidates at Step would choose each of the evaluators in order of preference. The system at Step would then arrange for the evaluator to review the initial conference between the candidate and the assessor as well as the rating provided by the assessor. If the evaluator s evaluation does not concur with the candidate s disputed claim the candidate at Step is notified. In this context the candidate also has the right to remove the assessor s rating from the database.

However if the evaluator at Step agrees with the candidate s disputed claim the assessor s rating input as well as conference would be erased at Step . At this point the evaluator does have the ability to re rate the candidate at Step based on the recording of the assessment being disputed. If this does not occur the candidate is notified at Step and the assessment process is re initiated. The candidate can then reinstitute the assessment process at Step .

If the evaluator does re rate the candidate at Step the evaluator would then provide the candidate with its rating at Step . At this point the assessment process would end at Step .

Although the present invention is utilized to allow a client to hire a candidate to fill a particular position another purpose of the present invention is to assist in a candidate improving his or her skill levels thereby making that candidate more attractive to a respective client. Regardless of whether a candidate would agree or disagree with a relatively low assessment rating for a particular skill or skills the present system would allow the candidate to improve those skills. This is accomplished by encouraging the candidate to be mentored. This feature is implemented by having a number of mentors registered in the system in a manner in which assessors and evaluators were included in the database of the present invention. The mentors would provide the system with information relating to their levels of expertise and skill levels. The candidate would then be offered the opportunity to utilize the system to be mentored in one or more skills. Once the candidate would enter the skills to be mentored the system would search its database and provide the candidate with one or more names as well as skill levels and expertise of the mentors. The candidate would then choose a mentor to help develop the candidate s skill levels. Once the candidate is satisfied that a particular skill level or skill levels have been improved the candidate would then request that they be assessed for either a new skill level or whether their skill level has been improved subsequent to a previous assessment. In this manner the candidates would make themselves more attractive to a perspective client.

As shown in the present system can assist the candidates with career guidance. For example the system would include an algorithm for reviewing all of the candidates hired by the client. The system would review the skills and skill levels of these hirees and compare them with the skill levels of other candidates. Additionally at Step the system can determine career paths based upon the skills that a successful candidate possesses. The system at Step would analyze the gap between candidates looking for employment and hired candidates and would suggest various training levels as well as academic degrees to which the candidate should thrive. This is accomplished by analyzing both external and internal data at Step . The system would then create career guide path s for those individuals which might also include the use of a mentor.

The system of the present invention would also utilize various additional personnel to assist in the hiring process. The system would utilize a legal service provider to determine whether a potential candidate could be employed by a particular client or situation. For example a client s position might require the candidate to possess a certain level of security or a predetermination that a candidate is clearable. The legal service provider can facilitate the candidate obtaining the proper level of security or an assessment to indicate that the candidate can be possibly cleared.

Additionally a client might require that a proposed or hired candidate be subjected to a medical examination. Therefore the present invention contemplates the use of a medical evaluator to conduct and or review the results of the medical examination.

The present invention also envisions the use of a training provider to be utilized by a candidate to improve skills by training or when a client hires a particular candidate for the purpose of training that candidate in various procedures relating to the particular job.

The present invention also contemplates the use of an assessment facilitator for assisting in conducting the assessment as well as the evaluation. illustrates the purpose of the assessment facilitator in more detail. Step indicates that the assessment facilitator would create an organization as well as a user profile. The organization profile contains information about and relating to an organization associated to a user in the system. This information consists but is not limited to the organization s legal name address as well as information used to uniquely identify the organization like the company s registration number tax identification number and country of origin. The user profile relates to information used to identify a particular user such as but not limited to the user s name date of birth address social security number passport number country of citizenship voter identification number and tax identification number. The assessment facilitator at Step would define the infrastructure he has to help candidates and assessors in conducting the assessment with the candidate. This infrastructure would include but is not limited to establish an assessment facility which would allow both the audio as well as internet interview to be conducted. The assessment facilitator would also arrange with the assessor and the candidate the location as well as the schedule for the assessment. This would include the assessment facilitator utilizing a computer center to allow the candidate and or the assessor access to a particular computer. Once the assessment facilitator information is recorded in the system the system at Step would inform the system s product management of the setup of the assessment facilitator for review and approval of the assessment facilitator. At Step the system would send user guides and presentations to the assessment facilitator.

The assessments are conducted between candidates and assessors and the evaluations are conducted between a recording of the candidate s assessment and an evaluator. The assessment is generally conducted between the assessor and the candidate employing a telephone connected to a telephony system or over the internet connected to the network system . This would allow the assessment evaluation as well as the ratings developed through the assessment and evaluation to be stored in the storage units after being processed by the processor or processors .

The present invention employs a website allowing the candidate to register his or her profile contact information and a recitation of his or her skills at Step . The candidate also has the ability through the website to alter his or her profile at Step by including additional skills updating profile information as well as indicating whether a mentor has been utilized.

The assessment as previously described will be conducted between an anonymous assessor and the candidate and the evaluation as previously described will be conducted between an anonymous evaluator and a recording of a candidate s assessment. This assessment process is generally conducted by various methods such as a telephone interview or utilizing a computer to conduct the interview between the candidates and the assessor shown at Step . Any conference call module will be utilized between the candidates on one end and the assessor on the other end. The assessment scheduling as well as recording the assessment will be provided between the conference call module and the application programming interface . Additionally the assessment rating and evaluation rating will be entered into the system at Step . The client would then have the ability to access the website for the purpose of conducting a candidate search and selection process for a particular employment position. The client would have the ability of entering various criteria in the website to generate a list of candidates.

It should be understood that the program processes or methods described herein are not related or limited to any particular type of computer apparatus. Various types of general purpose or specialized computer apparatuses may be used with or perform operations in accordance with the teachings of the present invention. In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the present invention may be applied it should be recognized that the detailed embodiments are illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention.

