---

title: Ink control on tablet devices
abstract: A method includes sensing two successive positional inputs input via a sensor display; determining a time difference between the two successive positional inputs; and rendering, to the sensor display, a graphic between the two successive positional inputs if the time difference does not exceed a time difference threshold. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09013440&OS=09013440&RS=09013440
owner: Lenovo (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
number: 09013440
owner_city: Singapore
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20110214
---
Subject matter disclosed herein generally relates to techniques for ink control on tablet and other devices.

Various devices include a display with one or more sensors configured to receive user input. For example many smart phones tablet PCs and other devices include a sensor display e.g. touch screen or other technology that allows a user to draw directly on the display for purposes of text recognition graphics photo editing etc. In such devices one or more sensors generate signals to locate a user s finger or a stylus manipulated by a user. The signals generated by one or more sensors are usually in the form of coordinates e.g. x and y x y and pressure etc. . Once received the device decides what should be rendered to the display often referred to as ink . As described herein various technologies provide for enhanced control of ink.

A method includes sensing two successive positional inputs input via a sensor display determining a time difference between the two successive positional inputs and rendering to the sensor display a graphic between the two successive positional inputs if the time difference does not exceed a time difference threshold. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the invention should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

As described herein scenarios often arise where a user with a tablet or other device having a sensor display e.g. touch screen or other technology intends to draw a line a curve etc. by quickly move a finger or a stylus across the sensor display. Due to a variety of factors sensor output may result in a discontinuous line curve etc. contrary to the user s intent. For example low sensor resolution may result in few samples and jagged ink. As another example contact between a finger or a stylus and a sensor display may be interrupted by bumps or lifts and result in discontinuous ink e.g. the device considered the input as being discontinuous rather than continuous .

Approaches that address ink continuity issues through higher resolution sensor hardware can add significant cost. In an effort to reduce cost so called touchless is also being developed e.g. using cameras however some indications exists that a camera based touchless sensor display can be even more prone to factors that result in ink discontinuity.

As described herein a method can act to ignore gaps between touches below one or more threshold amounts. In various examples a threshold may be based on time distance distance with respect to time or other characteristics. As described herein a method may optionally call for implementation of one or more calibration algorithms to detect how quickly a user draws writes inputs with an ink feature. In turn output can be adjusted to effectively handle any gaps. As described herein a smoothing process based on one or more thresholds can improve readability and appearance of lines drawn with a finger a stylus a digitizer etc.

In response to the user input and sensor display output a conventional ink method results in rendering of discontinuous ink . In contrast a bump or lift compensated method results in rendering of continuous ink . As described herein a compensated method may rely on one or more characteristics of sensor display output and one or more thresholds to determine whether a graphic should be rendered as a continuous graphic between two points. With respect to continuous for example where a user has selected a tool to draw a dashed line as a graphic such a line may be considered a continuous graphic e.g. a user may elect to reformat the line to a different non dashed style .

The scenario pertains to a hand of a user manipulating a finger with respect to a sensor display of a device where the user s finger moves in a direction along a path as indicated by an arrow. In the scenario the user s other hand is used to hold the device where the thumb is in contact with the sensor display . A side view of the path shows how the tip of the user s finger may move up and down with respect to the sensor display . Further as the user s thumb is in contact with the sensor display the sensor display outputs information for the thumb as being an additional input. In turn the sensor display outputs various coordinates for example including the coordinates associated with points and the point . In the scenario as indicated by lines drawn between the points and the point the conventional ink method registers the sensor display output for the thumb as being a valid point every time the user s finger lifts from the sensor display .

In contrast for the scenario a bump or lift compensated method results in rendering of continuous ink . Further an extraneous input method may act to compensate for any input received by the sensor display that is associated with a user holding the device . As described herein a compensated method may rely on one or more characteristics of sensor display output and one or more thresholds to determine whether a graphic should be rendered as a continuous graphic between two points.

The device of includes a sensor display . The sensor display may rely on one or more sensors. For example a display may be overlaid with a sensor that relies on a resistive matrix. As another example a display may be configured with one or more sensors that rely on electromagnetic energy sensing e.g. infrared radiation visible radiation etc. . While two general types of sensors are mentioned other types of sensors may be used.

The device may include one or more cores e.g. single or multicore processors memory display circuitry sensor circuitry timing circuitry rendering circuitry character recognition circuitry graphics circuitry and optionally other circuitry.

As described herein a device can include a display a sensor configured to sense positions of one or more objects in relation to the display circuitry configured to determine a time difference between two successively sensed positions of an object and circuitry configured to render to the display a graphic connecting the two successively sensed positions if a time difference between the two successively sensed positions of an object does not exceed a time difference threshold. As mentioned characteristics other than or in addition to time may be relied on in making decisions pertaining to ink rendering.

In the example of the characteristics include y y x x r r T y T x T r T and . Accordingly fractions or percentages of distance with respect to a screen dimension or distance may be used to decide whether a gap is intentional or unintentional e.g. continuous or discontinuous . For example if a gap as a percentage of a sensor display distance is greater than a certain threshold percentage then it may be deemed to be an intentional gap see e.g. the intentional gap of the scenario . As another example consider an angle where a change in angle may generate a characteristic that if greater than a certain threshold angle results in a gap being considered an intentional gap.

In the example of the method includes reception block and for receiving input associated with objects and determination blocks and for determining characteristics associated with the received input a comparison block for comparing one or more characteristics to one or more other characteristics or one or more thresholds and an output block for outputting information for example information sufficient to determine how received input should be rendered to a display. In the example method the determination block and may be a single block as indicated by a dotted line connecting the blocks.

The method includes a determination block for determining a time difference for user input e.g. Tas a tool position tool time difference etc. a reception block for receiving inputs and a decision block for deciding whether the inputs are for example periodic based on a determined time difference e.g. T . In the example of where the decision block decides that input events do not fall within a range about a time difference the method continues to an independent event block for indicating that the events are independent. Where the decision block decides otherwise the method continues to an associated event block for indicating that the events are associated e.g. part of a drawing process . In the scenario at time T the rendered output provides for a continuous line as the time gap conforms to a time difference associated with a drawing process e.g. dip draw dip . . . or draw dip draw . . . etc. .

In the example of the text recognition circuitry includes character set circuitry and style circuitry . Such circuitry may allow a user to select a particular character set e.g. Chinese Korean Arabic etc. and a style e.g. block cursive etc. .

In the example of the circuitry includes application circuitry for implementing one or more applications and tools circuitry for implementing one or more tools. The scenarios and pertain to drawing tools associated with a graphics application. In the example of the scenario pertains to a line tool and the scenario pertains to a curve tool. As described herein graphics or photo or other similar types of circuitry may be configured to operate in conjunction with compensation circuitry that can compensate for gaps in input e.g. bumps lifts extraneous contact etc. .

The method includes an initialization block for initializing a driver a detection block for detecting touch an enable block for enabling an analog to digital converter or other circuitry associated with a sensor display a collection block for collecting touch samples an analysis block for analyzing samples and an output block for outputting information associated with touch samples. As described herein the output of block may represent a particular position e.g. x y at a particular time. According to the method a subsequent collection block collects further samples and an analysis block performs an analysis on the further collected samples optionally in conjunction with output from the block or samples of the block . A determination block may then determine whether the samples of the sample block are associated with or independent of the samples of the prior sample block .

With respect to calibration the calibration GUI may prompt a user to draw two straight lines e.g. one bottom to top and one top to bottom . Output from a sensor display may be analyzed to determine whether gaps exists and characteristics of output for example as associated with one or more gaps or non gaps . In turn circuitry may automatically determine settings for the user to compensate for gaps and to generate improved ink.

With respect to the calibration GUI a user may be prompted to draw a circle in a clockwise direction and a counter clockwise direction. In turn output from a sensor display may be analyzed to determine whether gaps exist and characteristics of output. For example a user s finger may be smooth on one side and rough on another side. The circle calibration technique may automatically set settings for directional movements that account for variations in roughness of a finger a stylus or even the display itself e.g. due to wear . For example for a right handed person the index finger may be smoother on the thumb side and result in fewer lifts whereas the middle finger side of the index finger may be rough and cause more lifts. A calibration test such as the circle test of the GUI may collect information that can discern such differences and optionally automatically compensate via directional movement settings for finger input. While the example is described with respect to a finger such a technique can also apply to a stylus or other object used for input.

As described herein a method can include sensing two successive positional inputs input via a sensor display determining a time difference between the two successive positional inputs and rendering to the sensor display a graphic between the two successive positional inputs if the time difference does not exceed a time difference threshold. Such a method may further include determining a distance between the two successive positional inputs for example where the rendering renders the graphic if the distance does not exceed a distance threshold or determining a distance percentage based at least in part on a dimension of the sensor display and rendering the graphic if the distance percentage does not exceed a distance percentage threshold.

As described herein sensing may be resistive sensing ultrasonic sensing capacitive sensing pressure sensing optical sensing or other type of sensing.

As described herein a method can include executing a type of application and selecting a time difference threshold or other threshold based at least in part on the type of application. Such an application may be a character recognition application a drawing application or other type of application.

With respect to one or more time difference threshold values such values may be determined automatically or according to a default. A default value may be about 500 ms for example where a time difference e.g. for successive input less than approximately 500 ms is considered as being associated with an unintentional gap.

As described herein a method can include executing a character recognition application for recognizing characters of a language. A method may include rendering a line associated with a graphics application tool e.g. paint straight line curve etc. .

As described herein a method can include sensing two successive positional inputs and associating the inputs with a first object and sensing positional input associated with another object. In such an example a method may avoid rendering a graphic between a positional input for the first object and a positional input for the other object based at least in part on a distance between the positional input for the first object and the positional input for the other object.

As described herein an apparatus can include a display a sensor configured to sense positions of one or more objects in relation to the display circuitry configured to determine a time difference between two successively sensed positions of an object and circuitry configured to render to the display a graphic connecting the two successively sensed positions if a time difference between the two successively sensed positions of an object does not exceed a time difference threshold. Such an apparatus may include a sensor with associated sensing circuitry configured for resistance sensing ultrasonic sensing capacitive sensing pressure sensing optical sensing or other type of sensing.

As described herein an apparatus may include circuitry configured to execute a character recognition application a drawing application or both types of applications. Further circuitry may be included to select a time difference threshold or one or more other thresholds for a character recognition application and to select a time difference threshold for a drawing application. As described herein circuitry may be configured to render to a display a graphic connecting two successively sensed positions renders the graphic if a time difference between the two successively sensed positions of an object does not exceed a time difference threshold and if a distance between the two successively sensed positions of the object does not exceed a distance threshold.

As described herein one or more computer readable storage media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computer to execute an application sense two successive positional inputs input via a touch display determine a time difference between the two successive positional inputs and render to the touch display a graphic connecting the two successive positional inputs if the time difference does not exceed a time difference threshold associated with the application. Such media may further include instructions to instruct a computer to execute a different application associated with a different time difference threshold. As described herein one or more computer readable storage media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computer to determine a distance between two successive positional inputs and to render to a touch display a graphic connecting the two successive positional inputs if the distance does not exceed a distance threshold.

The term circuit or circuitry is used in the summary description and or claims. As is well known in the art the term circuitry includes all levels of available integration e.g. from discrete logic circuits to the highest level of circuit integration such as VLSI and includes programmable logic components programmed to perform the functions of an embodiment as well as general purpose or special purpose processors programmed with instructions to perform those functions. Such circuitry may optionally rely on one or more computer readable media that includes computer executable instructions. As described herein a computer readable medium may be a storage device e.g. a memory card a storage disk etc. and referred to as a computer readable storage medium.

While various examples of circuits or circuitry have been discussed depicts a block diagram of an illustrative computer system . The system may be a desktop computer system such as one of the ThinkCentre or ThinkPad series of personal computers sold by Lenovo US Inc. of Morrisville N.C. or a workstation computer such as the ThinkStation which are sold by Lenovo US Inc. of Morrisville N.C. however as apparent from the description herein a satellite a base a server or other machine may include other features or only some of the features of the system . As described herein a device such as the device of the device of the device of etc. may include at least some of the features of the system .

As shown in the system includes a so called chipset . A chipset refers to a group of integrated circuits or chips that are designed to work together. Chipsets are usually marketed as a single product e.g. consider chipsets marketed under the brands INTEL AMD etc. .

In the example of the chipset has a particular architecture which may vary to some extent depending on brand or manufacturer. The architecture of the chipset includes a core and memory control group and an I O controller hub that exchange information e.g. data signals commands etc. via for example a direct management interface or direct media interface DMI or a link controller . In the example of the DMI is a chip to chip interface sometimes referred to as being a link between a northbridge and a southbridge .

The core and memory control group include one or more processors e.g. single core or multi core and a memory controller hub that exchange information via a front side bus FSB . As described herein various components of the core and memory control group may be integrated onto a single processor die for example to make a chip that supplants the conventional northbridge style architecture.

The memory controller hub interfaces with memory . For example the memory controller hub may provide support for DDR SDRAM memory e.g. DDR DDR2 DDR3 etc. . In general the memory is a type of random access memory RAM . It is often referred to as system memory .

The memory controller hub further includes a low voltage differential signaling interface LVDS . The LVDS may be a so called LVDS Display Interface LDI for support of a display device e.g. a CRT a flat panel a projector etc. . A block includes some examples of technologies that may be supported via the LVDS interface e.g. serial digital video HDMI DVI display port . The memory controller hub also includes one or more PCI express interfaces PCI E for example for support of discrete graphics . Discrete graphics using a PCI E interface has become an alternative approach to an accelerated graphics port AGP . For example the memory controller hub may include a 16 lane 16 PCI E port for an external PCI E based graphics card. A system may include AGP or PCI E for support of graphics. As described herein a display may be a sensor display e.g. configured for receipt of input using a stylus a finger etc. . As described herein a sensor display may rely on resistive sensing optical sensing or other type of sensing.

The I O hub controller includes a variety of interfaces. The example of includes a SATA interface one or more PCI E interfaces optionally one or more legacy PCI interfaces one or more USB interfaces a LAN interface more generally a network interface a general purpose I O interface GPIO a low pin count LPC interface a power management interface a clock generator interface an audio interface e.g. for speakers a total cost of operation TCO interface a system management bus interface e.g. a multi master serial computer bus interface and a serial peripheral flash memory controller interface SPI Flash which in the example of includes BIOS and boot code . With respect to network connections the I O hub controller may include integrated gigabit Ethernet controller lines multiplexed with a PCI E interface port. Other network features may operate independent of a PCI E interface.

The interfaces of the I O hub controller provide for communication with various devices networks etc. For example the SATA interface provides for reading writing or reading and writing information on one or more drives such as HDDs SDDs or a combination thereof. The I O hub controller may also include an advanced host controller interface AHCI to support one or more drives . The PCI E interface allows for wireless connections to devices networks etc. The USB interface provides for input devices such as keyboards KB one or more optical sensors see e.g. the sensor of mice and various other devices e.g. cameras phones storage media players etc. . On or more other types of sensors may optionally rely on the USB interface or another interface e.g. IC etc. .

In the example of the LPC interface provides for use of one or more ASICs a trusted platform module TPM a super I O a firmware hub BIOS support as well as various types of memory such as ROM Flash and non volatile RAM NVRAM . With respect to the TPM this module may be in the form of a chip that can be used to authenticate software and hardware devices. For example a TPM may be capable of performing platform authentication and may be used to verify that a system seeking access is the expected system.

The system upon power on may be configured to execute boot code for the BIOS as stored within the SPI Flash and thereafter processes data under the control of one or more operating systems and application software e.g. stored in system memory . An operating system may be stored in any of a variety of locations and accessed for example according to instructions of the BIOS . Again as described herein a satellite a base a server or other machine may include fewer or more features than shown in the system of .

Although examples of methods devices systems etc. have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as examples of forms of implementing the claimed methods devices systems etc.

