---

title: Group-based machine to machine communication
abstract: Methods and apparatus are provided for performing group-based machine-to-machine (M2M) communication. Machine-type communication (MTC) wireless transmit/receive units (WTRUs) may operate in M2M groups. MTC WTRUs belonging to the same M2M group may receive a broadcast message with a time window on a channel dedicated for receiving data directed to an M2M group. The MTC WTRUs may wake up during the time window and may receive data directed to an M2M group on a dedicated channel. The broadcast message may be broadcasted via a broadcast server upon a request from an MTC server. The time window is allocated upon a request from an MTC server on behalf of the M2M group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09167517&OS=09167517&RS=09167517
owner: InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc.
number: 09167517
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110131
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 299 638 filed on Jan. 29 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth.

Machine to Machine M2M communication also referred to as machine type communications or MTC may be seen as a form of data communication between entities that do not necessarily need human interaction.

M2M communication may be used in a variety of areas. In the area of security M2M communication may be used in surveillance systems in backup of telephone landlines in the control of physical accesses e.g. to buildings and in car driver security. In the area of tracking and tracing M2M communication may be used for fleet management order management Pay As You Drive PAYD applications asset tracking navigation traffic information applications road tolling traffic optimization and steering. In the area of payment systems M2M communication may be used in point of sales vending machines customer loyalty applications and gaming machines. In healthcare M2M communication may be used for remotely monitoring vital signs supporting the elderly or handicapped in web access telemedicine points and in remote diagnostics. In the area of remote maintenance control M2M communication may be used in programmable logic controllers PLCs sensors lighting pumps valves elevator control vending machine control and vehicle diagnostics. In the area of metering M2M communication may be used in applications related to power gas water heating grid control and industrial metering. Additionally M2M communication based on machine type communication MTC technology may be used in areas such as customer service.

M2M communications may take advantage of deployed wireless networks based on Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP technologies such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE and or other technologies such as those developed by the Institute for Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and 3GPP2. M2M communications may use networks based on these technologies to deliver business solutions in a cost effective manner. In a circumstance involving ubiquitous deployment of wireless networks the availability of the wireless networks may facilitate and or encourage the deployment and use of MTC devices. Additionally further enhancements to these technologies may provide additional opportunities for the deployment of M2M based solutions.

Current M2M based solutions do not adequately address potential congestions on the network that may be caused by a large number of MTC devices performing network registration and or transmitting data simultaneously. Accordingly new technology that overcomes this shortcoming in the current technology is needed.

Methods and apparatus are provided for performing group based machine to machine M2M communication. Machine type communication MTC wireless transmit receive units WTRUs may operate in M2M groups. MTC WTRUs belonging to the same M2M group may receive a broadcast message with a time window dedicated for receiving data directed to an M2M group.

In an embodiment the MTC WTRUs in a M2M group may receive via broadcast a time window dedicated for the group to transmit data. For example an MTC server may request cell resources for the MTC WTRUs in the M2M group to transmit data. The MTC server may provide the cell resources to a broadcast server for broadcasting to the MTC WTRUs in the M2M group. The MTC server may also provide the M2M group via broadcast a time window allocated for the M2M group to transmit data. The time window may include multiple time slots with each time slot allocated for an individual MTC WTRU in the group to transmit data. Individual MTC WTRUs may wake up and transmit data during their respective time slots using the cell resources requested by the MTC server.

In an embodiment when an MTC WTRU wakes up during its respective time slot the MTC WTRU may listen on a paging channel and may receive a page from an MTC user. The page may include information that may prompt the MTC WTRU to connect to the network the MTC server and or the MTC user. Upon receipt of the page the MTC WTRU may request dedicated radio resources from the access network such that the MTC WTRU may communicate with the MTC user as an individual WTRU.

In an embodiment the MTC WTRUs may receive group based data from the MTC user. A time window may be set up for the MTC WTRUs in the group to receive the data at the same time. The time window may be broadcasted to the M2M group. The MTC WTRUs in the group may wake up during the time window and may receive data directed to an M2M group on a dedicated channel.

Disclosed herein are method embodiments and apparatus embodiments for performing group based machine to machine communication. In an embodiment machine type communication MTC wireless transmit receive units WTRUs may operate in M2M groups. MTC WTRUs belonging to the same M2M group may receive a broadcast message with a time window dedicated for receiving data directed to an M2M group. The broadcast message may be broadcasted via a broadcast server upon a request from an MTC server. The time window may be allocated upon a request from an MTC server on behalf of the M2M group. The MTC WTRUs may wake up during the time window and may receive data directed to an M2M group on a dedicated channel.

As shown in the communications system may include wireless transmit receive units WTRUs a radio access network RAN a core network a public switched telephone network PSTN the Internet and other networks though it will be appreciated that the disclosed embodiments contemplate any number of WTRUs base stations networks and or network elements. Each of the WTRUs may be any type of device configured to operate and or communicate in a wireless environment. By way of example the WTRUs may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals and may include user equipment UE a mobile station a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a laptop a netbook a personal computer a wireless sensor consumer electronics and the like.

The communications systems may also include a base station and a base station . Each of the base stations may be any type of device configured to wirelessly interface with at least one of the WTRUs to facilitate access to one or more communication networks such as the core network the Internet and or the networks . By way of example the base stations may be a base transceiver station BTS a Node B an eNode B a Home Node B a Home eNode B a site controller an access point AP a wireless router and the like. While the base stations are each depicted as a single element it will be appreciated that the base stations may include any number of interconnected base stations and or network elements.

The base station may be part of the RAN which may also include other base stations and or network elements not shown such as a base station controller BSC a radio network controller RNC relay nodes etc. The base station and or the base station may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals within a particular geographic region which may be referred to as a cell not shown . The cell may further be divided into cell sectors. For example the cell associated with the base station may be divided into three sectors. Thus in an embodiment the base station may include three transceivers i.e. one for each sector of the cell. In another embodiment the base station may employ multiple input multiple output MIMO technology and therefore may utilize multiple transceivers for each sector of the cell.

The base stations may communicate with one or more of the WTRUs over an air interface which may be any suitable wireless communication link e.g. radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR ultraviolet UV visible light etc. . The air interface may be established using any suitable radio access technology RAT .

More specifically as noted above the communications system may be a multiple access system and may employ one or more channel access schemes such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and the like. For example the base station in the RAN and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA which may establish the air interface using wideband CDMA WCDMA . WCDMA may include communication protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA and or Evolved HSPA HSPA . HSPA may include High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA and or High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA .

In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access E UTRA which may establish the air interface using Long Term Evolution LTE and or LTE Advanced LTE A .

In other embodiments the base station and the WTRUs may implement radio technologies such as IEEE 802.16 i.e. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX CDMA2000 CDMA2000 1X CDMA2000 EV DO Interim Standard 2000 IS 2000 Interim Standard 95 IS 95 Interim Standard 856 IS 856 Global System for Mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE GSM EDGE GERAN and the like.

The base station in may be a wireless router Home Node B Home eNode B or access point for example and may utilize any suitable RAT for facilitating wireless connectivity in a localized area such as a place of business a home a vehicle a campus and the like. In an embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.11 to establish a wireless local area network WLAN . In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.15 to establish a wireless personal area network WPAN . In yet another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may utilize a cellular based RAT e.g. WCDMA CDMA2000 GSM LTE LTE A etc. to establish a picocell or femtocell. As shown in the base station may have a direct connection to the Internet . Thus the base station may not be required to access the Internet via the core network .

The RAN may be in communication with the core network which may be any type of network configured to provide voice data applications and or voice over internet protocol VoIP services to one or more of the WTRUs . For example the core network may provide call control billing services mobile location based services pre paid calling Internet connectivity video distribution etc. and or perform high level security functions such as user authentication. Although not shown in it will be appreciated that the RAN and or the core network may be in direct or indirect communication with other RANs that employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT. For example in addition to being connected to the RAN which may be utilizing an E UTRA radio technology the core network may also be in communication with another RAN not shown employing a GSM radio technology.

The core network may also serve as a gateway for the WTRUs to access the PSTN the Internet and or other networks . The core network may include at least one transceiver and at least one processor. The PSTN may include circuit switched telephone networks that provide plain old telephone service POTS . The Internet may include a global system of interconnected computer networks and devices that use common communication protocols such as the transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP and the internet protocol IP in the TCP IP internet protocol suite. The networks may include wired or wireless communications networks owned and or operated by other service providers. For example the networks may include another core network connected to one or more RANs which may employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT.

Some or all of the WTRUs in the communications system may include multi mode capabilities i.e. the WTRUs may include multiple transceivers for communicating with different wireless networks over different wireless links. For example the WTRU shown in may be configured to communicate with the base station which may employ a cellular based radio technology and with the base station which may employ an IEEE 802 radio technology.

The processor may be a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Array FPGAs circuits any other type of integrated circuit IC a state machine and the like. The processor may perform signal coding data processing power control input output processing and or any other functionality that enables the WTRU to operate in a wireless environment. The processor may be coupled to the transceiver which may be coupled to the transmit receive element . While depicts the processor and the transceiver as separate components it will be appreciated that the processor and the transceiver may be integrated together in an electronic package or chip.

The transmit receive element may be configured to transmit signals to or receive signals from a base station e.g. the base station over the air interface . For example in an embodiment the transmit receive element may be an antenna configured to transmit and or receive RF signals. In another embodiment the transmit receive element may be an emitter detector configured to transmit and or receive IR UV or visible light signals for example. In yet another embodiment the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and receive both RF and light signals. It will be appreciated that the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and or receive any combination of wireless signals.

In addition although the transmit receive element is depicted in as a single element the WTRU may include any number of transmit receive elements . More specifically the WTRU may employ MIMO technology. Thus in an embodiment the WTRU may include two or more transmit receive elements e.g. multiple antennas for transmitting and receiving wireless signals over the air interface .

The transceiver may be configured to modulate the signals that are to be transmitted by the transmit receive element and to demodulate the signals that are received by the transmit receive element . As noted above the WTRU may have multi mode capabilities. Thus the transceiver may include multiple transceivers for enabling the WTRU to communicate via multiple RATs such as UTRA and IEEE 802.11 for example.

The processor of the WTRU may be coupled to and may receive user input data from the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD display unit or organic light emitting diode OLED display unit . The processor may also output user data to the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad . In addition the processor may access information from and store data in any type of suitable memory such as the non removable memory and or the removable memory . The non removable memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk or any other type of memory storage device. The removable memory may include a subscriber identity module SIM card a memory stick a secure digital SD memory card and the like. In other embodiments the processor may access information from and store data in memory that is not physically located on the WTRU such as on a server or a home computer not shown .

The processor may receive power from the power source and may be configured to distribute and or control the power to the other components in the WTRU . The power source may be any suitable device for powering the WTRU . For example the power source may include one or more dry cell batteries e.g. nickel cadmium NiCd nickel zinc NiZn nickel metal hydride NiMH lithium ion Li ion etc. solar cells fuel cells and the like.

The processor may also be coupled to the GPS chipset which may be configured to provide location information e.g. longitude and latitude regarding the current location of the WTRU . In addition to or in lieu of the information from the GPS chipset the WTRU may receive location information over the air interface from a base station e.g. base stations and or determine its location based on the timing of the signals being received from two or more nearby base stations. It will be appreciated that the WTRU may acquire location information by way of any suitable location determination method while remaining consistent with an embodiment.

The processor may further be coupled to other peripherals which may include one or more software and or hardware modules that provide additional features functionality and or wired or wireless connectivity. For example the peripherals may include an accelerometer an e compass a satellite transceiver a digital camera for photographs or video a universal serial bus USB port a vibration device a television transceiver a hands free headset a Bluetooth module a frequency modulated FM radio unit a digital music player a media player a video game player module an Internet browser and the like.

As shown in the Node Bs may be in communication with the RNC . Additionally the Node B may be in communication with the RNC . The Node Bs may communicate with the respective RNCs via an Iub interface. The RNCs may be in communication with one another via an Iur interface. Each of the RNCs may be configured to control the respective Node Bs to which it is connected. In addition each of the RNCs may be configured to carry out or support other functionality such as outer loop power control load control admission control packet scheduling handover control macrodiversity security functions data encryption and the like.

The core network shown in may include a media gateway MGW a mobile switching center MSC a serving GPRS support node SGSN and or a gateway GPRS support node GGSN . While each of the foregoing elements are depicted as part of the core network it will be appreciated that any one of these elements may be owned and or operated by an entity other than the core network operator.

The RNC in the RAN may be connected to the MSC in the core network via an IuCS interface. The MSC may be connected to the MGW . The MSC and the MGW may provide the WTRUs with access to circuit switched networks such as the PSTN to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and traditional land line communications devices.

The RNC in the RAN may also be connected to the SGSN in the core network via an IuPS interface. The SGSN may be connected to the GGSN . The SGSN and the GGSN may provide the WTRUs with access to packet switched networks such as the Internet to facilitate communications between and the WTRUs and IP enabled devices.

As noted above the core network may also be connected to the networks which may include other wired or wireless networks that are owned and or operated by other service providers.

The RAN may include eNode Bs though it will be appreciated that the RAN may include any number of eNode Bs while remaining consistent with an embodiment. The eNode Bs may each include one or more transceivers for communicating with the WTRUs over the air interface . In an embodiment the eNode Bs may implement MIMO technology. Thus the eNode B for example may use multiple antennas to transmit wireless signals to and receive wireless signals from the WTRU

Each of the eNode Bs may be associated with a particular cell not shown and may be configured to handle radio resource management decisions handover decisions scheduling of users in the uplink and or downlink and the like. As shown in the eNode Bs may communicate with one another over an X2 interface.

The core network CN shown in may include a mobility management gateway MME a serving gateway and a packet data network PDN gateway . While each of the foregoing elements are depicted as part of the core network it will be appreciated that any one of these elements may be owned and or operated by an entity other than the core network operator.

The MME may be connected to each of the eNode Bs in the RAN via an S1 interface and may serve as a control node. For example the MME may be responsible for authenticating users of the WTRUs bearer activation deactivation selecting a particular serving gateway during an initial attach of the WTRUs and the like. The MME may also provide a control plane function for switching between the RAN and other RANs not shown that employ other radio technologies such as GSM or WCDMA.

The serving gateway may be connected to each of the eNode Bs in the RAN via the S1 interface. The serving gateway may generally route and forward user data packets to from the WTRUs . The serving gateway may also perform other functions such as anchoring user planes during inter eNode B handovers triggering paging when downlink data is available for the WTRUs managing and storing contexts of the WTRUs and the like.

The serving gateway may also be connected to the PDN gateway which may provide the WTRUs with access to packet switched networks such as the Internet to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and IP enabled devices.

The core network may facilitate communications with other networks. For example the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to circuit switched networks such as the PSTN to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and traditional land line communications devices. For example the core network may include or may communicate with an IP gateway e.g. an IP multimedia subsystem IMS server that serves as an interface between the core network and the PSTN . In addition the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to the networks which may include other wired or wireless networks that are owned and or operated by other service providers.

As shown in the RAN may include base stations and an ASN gateway though it will be appreciated that the RAN may include any number of base stations and ASN gateways while remaining consistent with an embodiment. The base stations may each be associated with a particular cell not shown in the RAN and may each include one or more transceivers for communicating with the WTRUs over the air interface . In one embodiment the base stations may implement MIMO technology. Thus the base station for example may use multiple antennas to transmit wireless signals to and receive wireless signals from the WTRU . The base stations may also provide mobility management functions such as handoff triggering tunnel establishment radio resource management traffic classification quality of service QoS policy enforcement and the like. The ASN gateway may serve as a traffic aggregation point and may be responsible for paging caching of subscriber profiles routing to the core network and the like.

The air interface between the WTRUs and the RAN may be defined as an R1 reference point that implements the IEEE 802.16 specification. In addition each of the WTRUs may establish a logical interface not shown with the core network . The logical interface between the WTRUs and the core network may be defined as an R2 reference point which may be used for authentication authorization IP host configuration management and or mobility management. The communication link between each of the base stations may be defined as an R8 reference point that includes protocols for facilitating WTRU handovers and the transfer of data between base stations. The communication link between the base stations and the ASN gateway may be defined as an R6 reference point. The R6 reference point may include protocols for facilitating mobility management based on mobility events associated with each of the WTRUs 

As shown in the RAN may be connected to the core network . The communication link between the RAN and the core network may defined as an R3 reference point that includes protocols for facilitating data transfer and mobility management capabilities for example. The core network may include a mobile IP home agent MIP HA an authentication authorization accounting AAA server and a gateway . While each of the foregoing elements are depicted as part of the core network it will be appreciated that any one of these elements may be owned and or operated by an entity other than the core network operator.

The MIP HA may be responsible for IP address management and may enable the WTRUs to roam between different ASNs and or different core networks. The MIP HA may provide the WTRUs with access to packet switched networks such as the Internet to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and IP enabled devices. The AAA server may be responsible for user authentication and for supporting user services. The gateway may facilitate interworking with other networks. For example the gateway may provide the WTRUs with access to circuit switched networks such as the PSTN to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and traditional land line communications devices. In addition the gateway may provide the WTRUs with access to the networks which may include other wired or wireless networks that are owned and or operated by other service providers.

Although not shown in it will be appreciated that the RAN may be connected to other ASNs and the core network may be connected to other core networks. The communication link between the RAN the other ASNs may be defined as an R4 reference point which may include protocols for coordinating the mobility of the WTRUs between the RAN and the other ASNs. The communication link between the core network and the other core networks may be defined as an R5 reference which may include protocols for facilitating interworking between home core networks and visited core networks.

A MTC WTRU or a M2M WTRU may include a WTRU capable of communicating using MTC M2M technology. For example the MTC WTRU and or M2M WTRU may include a WTRU such as the one described in connection with capable of communicating using MTC M2M technology. For example an MTC WTRU may include an MTC device.

As shown in MTC WTRUs may operate in groups such as M2M group and M2M group . M2M groups may also be referred to as MTC groups. For example M2M group may include one or more MTC WTRUs such as MTC WTRUs and . M2M group may include one or more MTC WTRUs such as MTC WTRUs and . MTC WTRUs may include an MTC device as described above with respect to . In an embodiment MTC WTRUs belonging to the same cell may be grouped into an M2M group . In an embodiment MTC WTRUs located in the same area may be grouped into an M2M group . For example utility meters within a neighborhood may be grouped into an M2M group . In an embodiment the M2M group may be defined based on one or more shared features among MTC WTRUs . For example MTC WTRUs that may use a common application may be classified as a group.

In an embodiment the MTC WTRUs may communicate with the MTC users via a network M2M service application. The network M2M service application may run on for example the MTC server . The network M2M service application may manage the process within the network and may provide for the configuration of service and connectivity of the MTC WTRUs to the end user of the service. An MTC WTRU may be identified to the network service application by a unique ID. The unique ID may be included in uplink communications. For example an MTC server such as the MTC server may keep a list of the MTC WTRUs that may use the network M2M service application system.

A broadcast service may be allocated for M2M groups . The broadcast service may be defined by the network M2M service application. For example an M2M group may correspond to a service configured on a broadcast channel. In an embodiment the M2M groups may be handled by the M2M service application. In an embodiment each MTC WTRU in the group may subscribe to the broadcast service. The MTC WTRUs may determine which broadcast service to listen to. For example the MTC WTRUs may determine which broadcast service to listen to via an information exchange procedure with the network M2M application or via pre configuration settings.

As described above the MTC server may maintain a device list associated with an MTC user such as MTC user . The MTC WTRUs may be associated with the MTC user via the network M2M service application. For example the MTC user may configure the MTC server with a list of MTC WTRUs that the MTC user may be associated with. The MTC server may maintain device data routing information that may indicate how to route communications between the MTC user and MTC WTRUs . The MTC server may set up a broadcast channel such that information may be broadcasted to an M2M group for example via the broadcast server .

In an embodiment the MTC server may maintain a database that may store information related to resource allocation for MTC WTRUs and or M2M group to receive data receive pages and or transmit data. For example the database may store information that may include radio resources time windows and time slots for the MTC WTRUs of M2M group or M2M groups .

In an embodiment an MTC WTRU that may be added to the M2M system may receive MTC user information associated with the MTC user . MTC WTRU may be configured with the specific MTC user information. In an embodiment the MTC WTRU may be programmed with a unique identifier such as an IMEI in the UMTS system. The MTC WTRU may be programmed with information associated with register and connect to a cellular system network. For example the MTC WTRU may be programmed with information that may identify an associated MTC server and or an associated MTC user. For example an MTC Server IP Address and an MTC User IP address. The MTC Server IP Address may include an IP of an MTC server such as the MTC server that the MTC WTRU may be associated with. The MTC User IP address may include an IP of an MTC user such as the MTC user that the MTC WTRU may be associated with.

The MTC WTRU may connect to the MTC server . For example the MTC WTRU may connect to the MTC server via packet circuit switched or other mechanisms such that the MTC WTRU may communicate with the MTC server . For example the MTC WTRU may be powered on and may register with the cellular system network. The MTC WTRU may establish an IP connection. Through the IP connection the MTC WTRU may establish communication with the MTC Server via the programmed MTC Server IP Address. The MTC WTRU may provide the MTC Server with the programmed MTC User IP address and the unique identifier of the MTC WTRU .

The MTC Server may establish a connection with the MTC user using the IP address provided. The MTC Server may inform the MTC user that a new MTC WTRU is in the system and may provide the unique identifier of the MTC WTRU .

The MTC user may authenticate the MTC WTRU . The MTC User may inform the MTC Server of an M2M group such as the M2M groups to associate the MTC WTRU with. Upon validation the MTC user may re configure the MTC server . For example the MTC user may instruct the MTC Server to update the device list and routing table maintained by the MTC server to include information associated with the newly added MTC WTRU .

In an embodiment the MTC Server may provide the MTC WTRU with the requirements for operation in the system. The MTC Server may inform the MTC WTRU of an M2M group such as the M2M groups that the MTC WTRU may be associated with. The MTC Server may inform the MTC WTRU of a broadcast service through unique identifiers.

The MTC Server may register the MTC WTRU in a database. For example the MTC Server may record the routing information for routing data between the MTC WTRU and the MTC User . The MTC Sever may add the MTC WTRU to scheduling activity.

In an embodiment the MTC WTRU may be programmed with an MTC User IP address. The MTC User IP address may include an IP of an MTC user such as the MTC user that the MTC WTRU may be associated with.

For example the MTC WTRU may be powered on and may register with the cellular system network. The MTC WTRU may establish an IP connection. Through the IP connection the MTC WTRU may establish communication with the MTC user via the programmed MTC User IP Address.

The MTC user may authenticate the MTC WTRU . The MTC user may inform the MTC Server of the addition of the MTC WTRU . The MTC user may request the MTC Server to associate the MTC WTRU with a specific M2M group such as M2M group . The MTC user may request the MTC Server to provide the MTC WTRU with requirements for transmit and receive activities.

The MTC Server may inform the MTC user and or the MTC WTRU of a cellular broadcast service identifier. The MTC Server may inform the MTC WTRU of an M2M group such as the M2M groups that the MTC WTRU may be associated with.

In an embodiment an MTC WTRU that may be added to the M2M system may receive MTC user information associated with the MTC user . MTC WTRU may be configured with the specific MTC user information. The MTC user may be updated with MTC device information associated with the newly added MTC WTRU . The MTC WTRU may be updated with broadcast channel information. For example the update process may be performed manually. The MTC user may reconfigure the MTC server . For example the device list and routing table maintained by the MTC server may be updated to include information associated with the newly added MTC WTRU .

In an embodiment the MTC Server may request cellular resources in uplink downlink and or paging e.g. cellular channels to support the activities of the MTC WTRUs that the MTC Server may be associated with. For example the MTC Server may request cellular resources from the access network or networks. For example the MTC Server may request cellular resources for the MTC WTRUs registered to the MTC Server . The MTC Server may calculate the resources requirements from the sum of the individual MTC WTRU transmit and receive requirements. In an embodiment the administrative overhead requirements of the system and the M2M groups may be considered in the resources requirement calculation. The MTC Server may periodically or continually reevaluate the cellular resource requirements and release or request addition resources as needed.

The MTC server may provide MTC device uplink scheduling information to the broadcast server . The uplink schedule may be dynamically allocated by the MTC Server on an as needed basis. The device uplink scheduling information may include information associated with when the MTC WTRUs may be scheduled to transmit MTC information to the MTC user . For example device uplink scheduling information may include location of the time window in time individual MTC WTRU scheduling information such as a time slot for data transmission within the time window. The scheduling information may include information associated with when the MTC WTRUs may wake up to listen for broadcast message s that may include scheduling information for subsequent data transmission. The MTC server may provide the received cell resource information and information associated with the time window to the broadcast server . The information may be sent via a broadcast message placed on the service. The broadcast server may send the device uplink scheduling information and the cell resource information to the M2M group via a broadcast channel.

The MTC server may provision the M2M groups and or the MTC WTRUs with time windows or time slots on the cellular channels. The time windows or time slots may be used for data transmission and or the administrative signaling of the system. In an embodiment the MTC server may allocate multiple dedicated channels for multiple M2M groups. For example a dedicated channel may correspond to an M2M group. If a dedicated channel is not fully utilized the MTC server may bundle the M2M groups and or the MTC WTRUs into a contiguous block. The MTC server may request resources at the beginning of the block and may give resources back at the end of the block. The MTC Server may periodically recalculate the scheduling to adjust for the availability of cellular resources and the requirements of the MTC WTRUs registered to it. The MTC Server may periodically transmit schedule information to the MTC WTRUs along with the channel information.

In an embodiment the MTC WTRUs in an M2M group may share a time window and the cell resources for data transmission. The cell resources may be acquired by the MTC Server such that the individual MTC WTRUs may not need to signal the network for cell resources. This may reduce the signaling overhead of the M2M group as a whole and may reduce the risk of network congestion.

For example data may be sent to the MTC WTRUs of a specific M2M group or M2M groups on a cellular channel at the same time. The MTC Server may provision a downlink time window to an M2M group . An adjacent or immediately contiguous time window may be provisioned to a different M2M Group. In an embodiment the MTC Server may provide for gaps or guard bands between the time windows allocated to different M2M groups.

For example a specific MTC WTRU may transmit data to the MTC Sever or MTC User . The MTC Server may provision an uplink time slot on a cellular channel to an MTC WTRU. An adjacent or immediately contiguous time slot may be provisioned to a different MTC WTRU. In an embodiment the MTC Server may provide for gaps e.g. guard bands between the time slots. The MTC WTRUs associated with a specific M2M group may be bundled in time together occupying contiguous time slots. In an embodiment the schedule message may use relative time values to indicate time slots.

For example a specific MTC WTRU may be paged by the access network or the MTC Server . The MTC Server may provision a downlink time slot on a cellular channel to an MTC WTRU such that the MTC WTRU may receive a page. An adjacent or immediately contiguous time slot may be provisioned to a different to a different MTC WTRU . In an embodiment the MTC Server may provide for gaps e.g. guard bands between the time slots. The MTC WTRUs associated with a specific M2M group may be bundled in time together occupying contiguous time slots.

The uplink time slot and down link times slot for an MTC WTRU may be organized in time. For example the uplink time slot and down link times slot for an MTC WTRU may be organized in time such that the time the MTC WTRU may need to be in an awake state and or the number of times per cycle the MTC WTRU may need to transition from a sleeping to awake state may be reduced. For example the uplink time slot and down link times slot for an MTC WTRU may be organized in time such that the downlink and uplink time slot scheduling information may be compressed.

For example a specific MTC WTRU may receive scheduling information. The MTC Server may create formatted data blocks or messages that may include the aforementioned scheduling and provisioning information. The data blocks or messages may information that may indicate when on the next schedule message may be available e.g. message chaining .

In an embodiment the MTC server may request cell resources on behalf of the MTC WTRUs in the M2M group and or multiple groups. For example the MTC server may send a resource request for an uplink and or downlink dedicated channel to the access network and may receive cell radio resource information from the access network. The cell resource information may include information that the MTC WTRU may need to use the cell resources such as channel s acquired by the MTC Server for their use. For example the cell radio resource information may include information that may identify the channel shared among the MTC WTRUs in the M2M group .

In an embodiment the cell radio resources and the scheduling information may be sent via separate messages carried by different channels. For example the scheduling information may be too large for the broadcast channel. The channel information and a pointer to a dedicated channel and time may be provided in the broadcast message.

At individual MTC WTRUs may wake up during their respective time slots allocated for data transmission in accordance with the scheduling information. In an embodiment the MTC WTRUs may be connected to the operator domain as a group during a pre scheduled wakeup time. For example the MTC WTRU s may determine the wakeup time based on a previously received broadcast message. In an embodiment the broadcast message may include a location in time of the next broadcast message. The MTC WTRU may determine its sleep cycle based on the timing of the next broadcast message such that the next broadcast message may be received.

For example the MTC WTRUs may wake up and listen on the broadcast channel. An MTC WTRU may receive a broadcast message. The broadcast message may include the cell radio resource information and scheduling information for data transmission. Based on the received broadcast the MTC WTRU may identify a time slot within the shared time window for uplink data transmission and may go to sleep. The MTC WTRU may wake up during its respective time slot.

At data may be transmitted during the time slot in accordance with the received cell resources. In an embodiment the data may be sent to the MTC server . The MTC server may route the data to the corresponding MTC user such as MTC user in accordance with the pre configured routing table.

In an embodiment the MTC user may transmit group based data to MTC WTRUs in an M2M group . For example when the MTC user needs to send large blocks of data to MTC WTRUs in an M2M group a time window may be set up for the MTC WTRUs in the group to receive the data at the same time. The time window may be dynamically allocated by the MTC Server on an as needed basis and information associated with the time window may be provided to the MTC WTRUs via broadcast.

For example the MTC user may send MTC group data to the MTC server . The MTC server may acquire cell resources and may if it does not have pre allocated resources available allocate a time frame during on the cell resources for transmitting the downlink data to the MTC WTRUs in the group. In an embodiment the cell resources may be pre allocated. The group downlink data transmission scheduling information may include information associated with the MTC WTRUs sharing the time window and cell resources. For example group downlink data transmission scheduling information may include the location of the time window in time channel configuration information and radio resource information.

The MTC server may provide the MTC device group downlink data scheduling information to the broadcast server . The broadcast server may broadcast via a broadcast channel that the MTC WTRUs may listen on the group downlink data scheduling information. The MTC WTRUs may listen on the broadcast channel and may receive the broadcasted scheduling information. In an embodiment the broadcast message may include a location in time of the next broadcast message. The MTC WTRU may determine its sleep cycle based on the timing of the next broadcast message such that the next broadcast message may be received.

As shown in at the MTC WTRUs may wake up during the time window. During the time window the MTC WTRUs may be connected to the network such as the access network as a group.

At MTC group data may be received on a channel during the time window. In an embodiment the channel may be dedicated to the MTC WTRU group . For example upon receipt of the MTC group data from the MTC User or upon generation of the MTC group data by the MTC Server the MTC server may request cell resources for the MTC WTRUs to receive the MTC group data. For example the MTC server may send a cell resource request to the access network such that the MTC WTRUs in the M2M group may receive the MTC group data on a dedicated channel. The access network may provide the cell resource information based on the request to the MTC server . The cell resource information may include information that may indicate the dedicated channel allocated to the MTC WTRU group for receiving data during the time window.

In an embodiment the MTC server may determine whether cell resources that may be originally allocated for another M2M group may be used for the MTC WTRU group for receiving data. If the cell resources originally allocated for another M2M group are suitable for the MTC WTRU group the MTC server may reused the cell resources for the MTC WTRU group . If the cell resources originally allocated for another M2M group are not suitable for the MTC WTRU group the MTC server may return the cell resources and may request new cell resources for the MTC WTRU group .

The MTC Server may allocate a timeslot or window for the MTC WTRUs to receive the data on the allocated cell resources. The MTC server may provide the cell resource information and the scheduling information that may include time window location to the broadcast server . The broadcast server may broadcast the cell resource information via a broadcast channel that the MTC WTRUs may listen on. MTC WTRUs may receive the MTC group data on the dedicated channel indicated in the received cell resources information at the allocated time.

In an embodiment an MTC WTRU may be paged individually. For example the MTC user may page an individual MTC WTRU such as MTC WTRU

At the MTC WTRU may listen on a paging channel during the time slot allocated for the MTC WTRU to send and or receive data. The WTRU may be connected to the operator domain as a group during a pre scheduled wakeup time. The MTC WTRU may receive the broadcasted the cell radio resources and scheduling information for uplink data transmission. As described above the cell radio resources and scheduling information may include a time window shared amongst the MTC WTRUs in the M2M group . The time window may include multiple time slots with each time slot allocated for an individual MTC WTRU in the group. Based on the received broadcast the MTC WTRU may identify a time slot allocated for the MTC WTRU within the shared time window. The MTC WTRU may go to sleep. The MTC WTRU may wake up during the time slot allocated to the particular MTC WTRU and may listen on a paging channel.

At the MTC WTRU may receive a page during a time slot allocated for the MTC WTRU to send and or receive data. The MTC WTRU may receive the page via the paging channel. The page may be originated from an MTC user such as the MTC user associated with the MTC WTRU described above in conjunction with . In an embodiment the MTC user may send an M2M page directed to the MTC WTRU to the MTC server . For example the M2M page may include a type II page. The MTC server may send the M2M page to the MTC WTRU via the access network during a time slot allocated to the particular MTC WTRU . For example the page may be sent via a dedicated paging channel for the M2M group . The page may include information that may prompt the MTC WTRU to connect to a network to the MTC server and pr to the MTC user .

At the MTC WTRU may attempt to connect to a communication network. In an embodiment the MTC WTRU may exchange data with the MTC user via the MTC server . Upon receipt of the page the MTC WTRU may request radio resources from the access network such that the MTC WTRU may communicate with the MTC Server and thus the MTC user via dedicated resources. The dedicated radio resources may be different than the radio resources shared amongst the MTC WTRUs in M2M group . For example the MTC WTRU may obtain radio resources such that the MTC WTRU may be connect to the MTC server via packet circuit switched channels Circuit Switched call control or other mechanisms. Thus the MTC user may communicate via the MTC Server with an individual MTC WTRU in an M2M group via radio resources dedicated to the MTC WTRU as an individual WTRU or as though the MTC WTRU is not part of an M2M group .

The MTC Server may periodically provide a subset of the scheduling information to an M2M group. For example scheduling information to an M2M group may be provide via broadcast such that the MTC WTRUs in an M2M group may identify the downlink time window associated with the M2M group . The schedule message may preserve the cellular networks limited broadcast serve resources.

The MTC WTRU may periodically listen to the configured broadcast service. The MTC WTRU may identify a time window and or cellular resources associated with the M2M Group in the schedule message using the configured M2M group unique identifier.

In an embodiment the MTC server may send schedule information to a specific M2M group as a formatted data block or message. The schedule information may include schedule and resource information pertinent to the M2M group and the associated MTC WTRUs during the M2M group s provisioned time window over the provisioned downlink channel.

The MTC WTRUs of the M2M Group may wake up on a trigger and may listen during the time window allocated to the M2M group on the downlink channel provided in a previously received schedule message. An MTC WTRU may read and save specific schedule information from the formatted data block including a time slot on the uplink e.g. Tx and downlink e.g. paging channel. The MTC WTRU may identify schedule information associated with the MTC WTRU in formatted data block for example by using the unique identifier of the MTC WTRU . The MTC WTRU may read and save the time and channel information for a next time window allocated to the M2M group . The MTC server may provide for time triggered events to notify the MTC WTRU prior to upcoming uplink and downlink time slots and upcoming time windows. The MTC WTRU may go into a low power mode such as a sleep mode.

The MTC WTRU may wake up on a trigger and may transmit a formatted data block to the MTC server during an uplink time slot. The MTC WTRU may include its unique identifier in the formatted data block. If the downlink time slot is contiguous the MTC WTRU may listen for a page on the downlink channel provisioned. The MTC WTRU may go into a low power mode such as a sleep mode until the next timed trigger event.

The MTC server may receive the formatted data block transmitted by the MTC WTRU during a time slot allocated to the MTC WTRU . The MTC server may forward the formatted data block to the MTC user associated with the MTC WTRU . The MTC server may use the routing information and the MTC WTRU unique identifier to forward the formatted data block to the MTC user .

In an embodiment the periodicity of the schedule message on the downlink time window may be longer than the periodicity of the uplink time slots. A schedule message may include information that may indicate multiple uplink or downlink paging opportunities.

In an embodiment the schedule message may be provided via broadcast. The MTC server may periodically provide a complete set of the scheduling information to the M2M groups via the cellular network broadcast system Broadcast server in a broadcast message.

The MTC WTRU may periodically listen to the configured broadcast service. An MTC WTRU may read and save specific schedule information from a received broadcast message that may include a time slot on the uplink e.g. Tx and downlink e.g. paging channel. The MTC WTRU may identify schedule information in the received broadcast message for example by using the unique identifier of the MTC WTRU . The MTC WTRU may read and save the time for the next broadcast message occurrence. The MTC server may provide for time triggered events to notify the MTC WTRU prior to upcoming uplink and downlink time slots and upcoming broadcast messages. The MTC WTRU may go into a low power mode such as a sleep mode.

The MTC WTRU may wake up on a trigger and may transmit a formatted data block to the MTC server during its uplink time slot. The MTC WTRU may include its unique identifier in the formatted data block. If the downlink time slot is contiguous the MTC WTRU may listen for a page on the downlink channel provisioned. The MTC WTRU may go into a low power mode such as a sleep mode until the next timed trigger event.

The MTC server may receive the formatted data block transmitted by the MTC WTRU during a time slot allocated to the MTC WTRU . The MTC server may forward the formatted data block to the MTC user associated with the MTC WTRU . The MTC server may use the routing information and the MTC WTRU unique identifier to forward the formatted data block to the MTC user .

In an embodiment the periodicity of the schedule message on the downlink time window may be longer than the periodicity of the uplink time slots. A schedule message may include information that may indicate multiple uplink or downlink paging opportunities.

In an embodiment the MTC WTRU may receive data from the MTC user via broadcast. For example the MTC user may periodically or asynchronously send data message to the MTC server for transmission to the MTC WTRUs of one or more M2M groups . The data message from the MTC user may include MTC user formatted data block. The MTC user may include unique identifiers associated with the M2M groups .

The MTC server may provision a time window or windows on a downlink channel or channels such that the MTC WTRUs may receive the formatted data block. The MTC server may acquire new or additional cellular resources if the existing or presently allocated resources are insufficient. For example resources may include information that the access network may provide to set up an additional channel. The MTC server may create schedule information for the data block. The MTC server may include this schedule information in a next schedule message to the M2M group in the time window associated with the M2M group on the provisioned downlink channel. The MTC server may use the unique identifier associated with the M2M group to identify the correspondence between an M2M group and a corresponding time window. The MTC server may send the formatted data block through the access network during the time window on the provisioned channel.

The MTC WTRUs of the M2M group may wake up on a trigger and may listen during the time window allocated to the M2M group on the downlink channel provided in a previously received schedule message. An MTC WTRU may read and save specific schedule information from the formatted data block including a time slot on the uplink and downlink channel. The MTC WTRU may identify schedule information associated with the MTC WTRU in the formatted data block for example by using the unique identifier of the MTC WTRU . The MTC WTRU may read and save the time and channel information for a next time window allocated to the M2M group . The MTC server may provide for time triggered events to notify the MTC WTRU prior to upcoming uplink and downlink time slots and upcoming time windows. The MTC WTRU may go into a low power mode such as a sleep mode.

The MTC WTRU may wake up on a trigger event and may listen during the time window allocated to the M2M group on the downlink channel provided in the previously received schedule message. The MTC WTRU may receive the MTC user formatted data block. The MTC WTRU may act on or save the MTC user formatted data block.

In an embodiment an MTC WTRU may establish a direct dedicated connection to the MTC user . For example the MTC user may notify the MTC server that the MTC user requires a direct link to an MTC WTRU . The notification to the MTC server may include a unique identifier associated with the MTC WTRU .

The MTC server may determine when the next downlink time slot for the indicated WTRU may be available. The MTC server may send a page to the MTC WTRU indicated during the time slot.

The MTC WTRU may wake up on a trigger event and may listen during a time slot on the downlink channel provided in a previously received schedule message. The MTC WTRU may receive the MTC server page. The MTC WTRU may establish an IP connection through the access network using dedicated cellular resources. The MTC WTRU may establish communication with the MTC user application via the IP connection.

Though the example embodiments described herein are carried out in the context of IP address it is to be understood that the technique applies to other network addresses. While the various embodiments have been described in connection with the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the various embodiments without deviating there from. Therefore the embodiments should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

