---

title: Method and apparatus for laryngeal elevator musculature rehabilitation
abstract: A device useful in treating decreased laryngeal elevation and for muscle re-education and rehabilitation is provided. The device is suitable for transmitting an electrical stimulus and can comprise a series of electrically conductive fibers oriented at an angle such that the fibers are parallel to muscle fibers of the laryngeal elevated musculature in the submandibular region of a patient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09031659&OS=09031659&RS=09031659
owner: Ampcare, LLC
number: 09031659
owner_city: Ft. Worth
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110207
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 827 484 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR LARYNGEAL ELEVATOR MUSCULATURE REHABILITATION filed Jul. 11 2007 and now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 885 713 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The current invention generally relates to a method of treating decreased laryngeal elevation. More specifically this invention relates to the use of a neuro orthotic device in combination with electrical stimulation of the submandibular muscles to treat laryngeal elevator musculature. This invention also relates to muscle re education and rehabilitation by using a neuro orthotic device in combination with electrical stimulation of the submandibular muscles to stimulate laryngeal elevator musculature.

People with dysphagia have difficulty swallowing and may also experience pain while swallowing. A commonly encountered functional abnormality in individuals with dysphagia is a decrease in laryngeal elevation. Laryngeal elevation is important in the elongation of the pharyngeal esophageal sphincter and assistance with epiglottic closure. Often the decrease in laryngeal elevation is due to atrophy of the laryngeal elevator musculature.

The use of neuromuscular electrical stimulation NMES for dysphagia treatment has gained increased interest over several years. There have been a few investigative studies into NMES treatments of dysphagia. Some previous studies have focused on research methods involving the stimulation of open nerves in animals. Other studies have focused on the use of electrical stimulation with parameters adjusted to initiate the swallow reflex.

In the context of sleep apnea research some researchers have hypothesized that electrical stimulation may improve laryngeal musculature and thereby decrease apneic episodes. There is however an absence of published research combining an orthotic or neuro orthotic in combination with electrical stimulation to promote laryngeal elevator musculature re education rehabilitation or regeneration.

The existing studies are not necessarily a best option for a therapeutic treatment of decreased laryngeal elevation. An evaluation of these techniques for their significance in swallowing rehabilitation and other treatments centered on the submandibular and pharangyeal regions shows that the specific parameters and uses vary and the results for the research have not been consistent.

One difficulty researchers face is finding the proper balance of treatment and therapy to overcome the decrease in laryngeal elevation. Major goals of treatment and therapy include being non invasive to the patient preventing disuse atrophy of the muscles increasing range of motion re educating muscle functions temporarily decreasing spasticity and increasing local blood circulation.

The present invention as described herein is directed to the aforementioned problems deficiencies and goals.

One embodiment is a method for muscle rehabilitation of laryngeal elevator musculature comprising placing a patient into a neuro orthotic device for elevation of the laryngeal elevator musculature and applying a protocol of an electrical stimulus to the submandibular region for a sufficient period of time using a sufficient electrical input.

Another embodiment is a method for non invasive treatment of laryngeal elevator musculature. The method comprises fitting a prosthetic neuro orthotic device to a patient and applying at least one pair of electrodes to the submandibular region of the patient. Once positioned a repeated pulsing of a pre determined electrical current is sent through the electrodes. The stimulating of the patient s submandibular region muscles is done for a pre determined period of time.

Another embodiment of this invention is a method for re educating the laryngeal elevator musculature of a patient. This method comprises placing a patient into a neuro orthotic device which aligns the cervical spine of the patient in the orthotic device. The method requires applying at least one transcutaneous electrical muscle stimulator electrode to the patient s submandibular region. The positioning of the patient s submandibular region in the neuro orthotic orthotic device increases the electrical signal efficiency of the electrode. Once positioned a protocol is applied which has a sufficient electrical current that is applied for a sufficient period of time. The current further comprises a sufficient frequency a sufficient pulse width a sufficient amplitude a sufficient ramp period and a sufficient waveform.

Another embodiment of this invention is a method for muscle rehabilitation of laryngeal elevator musculature. The inventive method comprises fitting a patient into a neuro orthotic device for treatment. The neuro orthotic device supports the patient s submandibular region for the treatment. The inventive method is to align a plurality of transcutaneous electrical muscle stimulator electrodes on the patient s submandibular with the neuro orthotic device. The electrodes are applied and positioned to stimulate the laryngeal elevator musculature. The application of a protocol with a pre determined pulsed electrical current to the patient for a pre determined time with a pre determined electrical input is accomplished.

Another embodiment of this invention is a removable electrode. The electrode comprises a pad a series of electrically conductive elements affixed to the pad and oriented to align with the submandibular muscle fibers a protective insulating cover affixed to the electrically conductive elements and the pad and an electrical lead extending from the pad which is in electrical communication with the series of electrically conductive elements.

Numerous objects and advantages of the invention will become apparent as the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment is read in conjunction with the drawing which illustrates such embodiment.

Muscle re education re generation and rehabilitation to improve laryngeal elevation using NMES are the primary goals of this inventive method and apparatus. The rationale is that the improved range of motion of the larynx and tongue base retraction during swallowing affects airway protection. This anterior motion of the hyolaryngeal complex is essential to improved swallow function.

Electronic stimulation of muscles has been practiced and is understood for many muscles and muscle groups. Electronic stimulation of the muscles forces a specific muscle or muscle group and often ancillary muscles to react to the stimulus. Electronic stimulation in the present invention is directed to muscle re education regeneration and rehabilitation of the laryngeal elevator musculature in order to promote laryngeal elevation but is not intended to nor set at such a level to initiate the swallow reflex.

The use of electronic stimulation to promote laryngeal elevation requires that the correct muscles be exercised. The paired muscles of the mylohyoid geniohyoid and the anterior belly of the digastric musculature are primarily responsible for anterior and superior movement of the hyoid bone during a swallow. This movement of the hyoid and laryngeal elevation is vital in airway protection during swallowing. The anterior superior movement of the larynx helps bring the airway safely away from the path of the bolus. Techniques used to accentuate and prolong laryngeal elevation are used as indirect dysphagia treatment. These techniques are based on the anatomical relationship of the hyoid larynx and cricopharyngeal region.

Using a neuro orthotic device or orthotic in combination with electronic stimulation of the laryngeal elevator musculature provides greater isolation of the muscles and allows proper positioning and conduction of the electrodes. A neuro orthotic device also improves laryngeal elevation while reducing complications associated with disorders and injuries of the central nervous system. Additionally a neuro orthotic device places the patient in the proper anatomical position to receive the most efficient electronic stimulation treatment. The neuro orthotic device also prevents the adverse affect of moisture and saliva contacting the electrodes. Provided that the peripheral nervous system is intact the protocol of this inventive method and apparatus can be used as an adjunct in the clinical treatment of a variety of neuromuscular and musculoskeletal problems. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation MMES used in combination with the electrodes of the present invention and a neuro orthotic device shows an increase of strength and range of motion facilitating weak contractions due to upper motor neuron lesions or disuse atrophy and to re educate muscles.

In electrodes and are shown with electrical leads and . Also shown in are conductive elements and . Electrical leads and provide electrical current to conductive elements and . Electrical leads and are shown in electrically connected to power source . Electrical leads and are shown as separate lines but they may be combined into a single cable. The electrical current is provided and regulated by power source .

Power source is preferably a muscle stimulator capable of providing the protocol parameters described herein. A known power source is the Staodyne EMS 2 manufactured by Compex Technologies Inc. Other known power sources include the IntelliSTIM BE 28E manufactured by EASYMED Instrument Co. Ltd Respond Select manufactured by Empi Inc. BioStim NMS manufactured by BioMedical Life Systems Inc. and SYS STIM manufactured by Mettler Electronics Corporation. However any single or plural power source may be used that substantially meets the protocol requirements of the inventive method described herein.

Pad has pad first side and and pad second side and . Conductive elements and are affixed to pad first side and . Pad second side and is preferably inherently tacky such that it will stick to patient shown in . However pad second side and may be coated with a tacky substance.

Electrodes and are shown in and as geometric shaped segments. The geometric shaped segment of electrodes and is designed to conformably place electrodes and on submandibular region and to properly orient small fibers and in relation to the submandibular region muscle fibers. Each segment has first leg and having a length x and second leg and having a length y connected by arcuate portion and . Length x and length y may be produced in different sizes to meet the needs of differently sized patients . For the preferred embodiment length x is about 3.7 centimeters in length. For the preferred embodiment length y is about 4.4 centimeters in length. First leg and has a first leg first end and and a first leg second end and . Second leg and has a first leg first end and and first leg second end and . As seen in first leg first end and is connected the second leg first end and . Arcuate portion and connects first leg second end and and second leg second end and

Electrodes and are shown as mirror images of each other and each is sized to substantially cover one half of submandibular region of patient . depicts electrodes and positioned upon submandibular region of patient . Only electrodes and are shown in FIGS. and . Electrodes and are preferably used in pairs with a waveform that is biphasic. However a single electrode or may be used in combination with a form of a manual probe.

Electrodes and are used in combination with neuro orthotic device . Electrodes and are shown in positioned upon chin pad of orthotic device . Neuro orthotic device may be any orthotic or neuro orthotic that properly elevates the laryngeal elevator musculature. The preferred neuro orthotic device is a device previously marketed as the REST EZZZ with ESP Enhanced Swallow Posture by Restorative Medical Incorporated headquartered in Brandenburg Ky. The minimum criteria in selecting neuro orthotic device are the proper positioning of the laryngeal elevator musculature and non interference with electrodes and . Once properly positioned as shown in neuro orthotic device facilitates anterior and superior hyoidal movement while maintaining proper postural alignment with optimal contact of electrodes and . Additionally neuro orthotic device facilitates better contact between the submandibular region musculature and electrodes and . The better contact is achieved by patient resting chin upon neuro orthotic device which improves contact with the submandibular region musculature.

Referring to neuro orthotic device is shown with an ergonomic design to support chin while keeping neuro orthotic device away from neck of patient . Chest of patient is used to provide a fulcrum to support chin with neuro orthotic device . Retention strap is shown around the back of neck . In this position neuro orthotic device is held in position for treatment. Once positioned as shown in the laryngeal elevator musculature of patient is properly positioned for treatment.

Patient is depicted in as a human. However this inventive method is applicable to any animal having submandibular region . Usage of the term animal is meant to include all human and non human species having a submandibular region .

With electrodes and in place neuro orthotic device is placed under chin of patient . Chin pad of neuro orthotic device comfortably raises the submandibular region of patient to a proper position. In the proper position the laryngeal elevator musculature of patient is positioned for the maximum muscle re education and rehabilitation. Chin pad may be used to align electrodes and for initial treatment and for subsequent treatments thus ensuring consistent or repeatable placement of electrodes and on submandibular region .

A proper protocol is used for treatment of the patient. The application of the proper protocol uses a pre determined or sufficient pulsed electrical current sent through electrodes and for a pre determined or sufficient time with a pre determined or sufficient electrical input. Pre determined or sufficient power comprises a sufficient voltage a sufficient frequency a sufficient pulse width a sufficient amplitude a sufficient ramp period and a sufficient waveform. Pre determination or sufficiency is based upon the needs of patient and what is tolerable to patient . The application of a sufficient frequency produces a smooth tetanic contraction in the muscles of a submandibular region without causing spasms.

A pre determined or sufficient protocol typically requires treatment twice a day for about 15 minutes. The duty cycle of the protocol starts about 5 seconds on and about 25 seconds off. Once patient can tolerate the treatment the duty cycle is changed to about 5 seconds on and about 15 seconds off. The maximum duty cycle is about a 1 1 ratio or about 5 seconds on and about 5 seconds off.

The preferred protocol frequency is about 30 hertz 30 pulses per second . The protocol pulse width is between about 240 microseconds to about 260 microseconds. The preferred initial trial pulse width is about 250 microseconds. However if patient finds the treatment painful and is still able to activate sensory and motor recruitment the pulse width may be lowered between about 40 microseconds to about 60 microseconds. If the pulse width is lowered to between about 40 to about 60 microseconds the amperage is preferably doubled. The protocol amperage is preferably about 10 milliamps to about 80 milliamps. However the amperage is tied to the pulse width for maximum muscle stimulation. The amplitude is between about 10 milliamps to about 40 milliamps for a pulse width of about 250 microseconds. The amplitude is between about 30 milliamps to about 80 milliamps for a pulse width of about 50 microseconds. The protocol uses pulsed current. In one clinical trial the amplitude had a range of 14 milliamps to 35 milliamps for an input voltage range of 11 millivolts to 100 millivolts. The average was 18.72 milliamps and 46.04 millivolts. The protocol ramp or rise in intensity is about 0.4 seconds. The waveform of the protocol is preferably a symmetrical biphasic waveform when pairs of electrodes and are utilized.

To stimulate the anterior digastric and mylohyoid muscles the current must pass through the skin fascia layer and platysma. The electrical current passes through these layers to the anterior digastric and mylohyoid musculature and may overflow into other musculature such as the geniohyoid and hyoglossus. The benefits of stimulating this region are that they voluntarily assist the depression of the tongue via the hyoglossus and contract the digastric muscles mylohyoid and geniohyoid muscles assisting in the anterior superior movement of the larynx.

The goal of using these preferred parameters of the protocol is for re educating the laryngeal elevator musculature without inducing a swallow reflex. To accomplish this goal the anterior digastric muscle which originates on the inferior border of the mandible is stimulated since it is the most superficial suprahyoidal muscle. The anterior digastric muscle insertion at the cornu of the hyoid acts to elevate and pull the hyoid anteriorly. The stimulation overflows to the mylohyoid for its origin on the mylohyoid line of the mandible and its insertion at the body of the hyoid which acts to elevate and pull the hyoid anteriorly. The stimulation overflows to the hyoglossus for its origin on the hyoid bone and its insertion at the sides of the tongue which depresses the tongue. The stimulation may overflow to the geniohyoid which is depresses the jaw and elevates and protracts the hyoid. Origin of the geniohyoid from the inferior mental spine on the back of the symphysis menti and inserts to the hyoid bone.

Using a pulse rate of about 30 Hertz produces a tetanizing muscle contraction with minimal muscle fatigue and without causing spasm. Tetanizing is a condition characterized by twitching contracting muscles. Using a pulse width of about 250 microseconds increases the depth of penetration of the current. Initial trial of 250 microseconds is recommended to achieve muscle tetany. The higher the pulse width the greater the penetration of current and the lower the intensity needed to make a contraction. The lower the pulse width the shallower the penetration of current and the higher the intensity needed to make a contraction. The strength duration curve provided in indicates that the large sensory nerves are activated first motor nerves are activated second and pain nerves are activated third.

The higher the amplitude the greater the increase in the number of muscle motor units activated. The preferred amplitude is patient variable ranging from 10 milliamps to 100 milliamps which is sufficient to elicit a comfortable motor tetanic response in patient . Ramp up time or ramp time is the length of time it takes for the output stimulus to reach maximum strength for each muscle contraction. The ramp time aids in the comfort of the treatment. Typically a ramp time of 0.4 seconds can be used to mimic normal recruitment and is suggested for the comfort of patient .

The duty cycle affects the fatigue rate of patient . Depending upon patient initial treatments for muscle re education may require longer on off time in the duty cycle. A duty cycle of about 1 3 about 5 seconds on and about 15 seconds off is typically less fatiguing to patient . However it is recommended that treatment start at a duty cycle of about 1 5 about 5 seconds on and about 25 seconds off. The maximum duty cycle is about 1 1 about 5 seconds on and about 5 seconds off.

The preferred waveform is a symmetrical biphasic waveform. The symmetrical biphasic waveform efficiently stimulates both electrodes and . The size and placement of electrodes and must be chosen such that they provide the desired response for patient avoiding the carotid sinus. Any power source that is a powered muscle stimulator labeled for muscle re education can be used with neuro orthotic device as long as it is capable of meeting the protocol parameters and follows the manufacturers listed contraindications.

The neuro orthotic device positions submandibular region of patient into a position such that the laryngeal elevator muscles are stimulated without inducing a swallowing action. This movement facilitates patterns leading to the reversal of disuse atrophy while improved posture will enhance the ability to breathe and take in nutrition and hydration. Neuro orthotic device comfortably embraces submandibular region and can be used as an orthosis to decrease pain from poor posture. An additional benefit is that this inventive method should increase the quality of life as patients will be able to take part in activities which may also improve their degree of orientation and cognition. Preferably neuro orthotic device can be customized to allow for accurate and easy application removal. By using heavy gloves and moving a heat gun in a small circular motion neuro orthotic device can be remolded to change the angle of chin pad support structure or chest pad support structure to lengthen or shorten the overall height.

In a multi center prospective clinical trial study the principles of this invention were applied to a real world setting using the protocol shown below on long term care patients who exhibited dysphagia due in part to poor or diminished laryngeal elevation. The time of each treatment included two 15 minute sessions daily for a total of 30 minutes of therapy time. This protocol is accomplished 5 times per week.

The evaluated patients were from multiple long term care facilities in Texas. Group 1 included patients receiving at least 20 therapy days of the Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation NMES protocol as well as traditional therapy 59 patients . Group 2 included patients receiving traditional dysphagia therapy only as would have been performed prior to any NMES modality training or for patients who refused the NMES therapy protocol 46 patients .

A total of 105 patients were evaluated with the Modified Barium Swallow Study MBSS by a trained licensed speech language pathologist and were found to have impaired laryngeal elevation as a primary or secondary dysfunction causing aspiration or risk of aspiration to the degree that diet changes were necessary. A swallow severity scale was established to determine the diet after the initial diagnosis of dysphagia using fluoroscopy. The subset of patients who were able to tolerate at least 20 days of traditional dysphagia therapy while also using the NMES established protocol were included in the analysis as patients having successful completion of the protocol. A comparison was made from a total of 46 patients who received only the traditional dysphagia therapy but whose chart reviews noted these patients exhibited dysphagia with decreased laryngeal elevation as diagnosed from an MBSS. These charts were evaluated as to the number of patients who had an improved swallow severity scale. The severity scale is shown in Table 1.

The results of the study were promising. The swallow severity scale improved from a 2.25 level to a 3.6 level in the NMES subgroup receiving at least 20 days of the NMES protocol. The swallow severity scale improved from a 2.52 level to a 2.60 level in the traditional therapy group. A review of patients charts revealed that not all of the patients were able to achieve a period of at least 20 days in the traditional therapy group. The average number of therapy visits in the NMES subgroup was 37.71 visits range 20 91 . The average number of therapy days in the traditional study group was 19 days range 8 44 . In this study 59 of the patients who received at least 20 days of the NMES protocol had a diet upgrade while 41 of the patients did not improve in diet upgrades. It should be noted that 4 patients were already at a high swallow rating prior to beginning therapy mechanical soft with thin liquids and therefore did not have much room to improve. In the traditional therapy arm of this review 10 of patients improved to achieve a diet upgrade 80 of the patients did not improve to a diet upgrade and 10 of the patients had a decline in ability. There were no significant adverse events that occurred during this study period. There were some patients who refused therapy both with the NMES as well as the traditional methods. Some patients were discharged back to a hospital with ongoing medical illnesses which were not attributed to either therapy group. Most of these patients did not meet the intent to treat criteria of 20 days of the NMES therapy protocol.

The results of this clinical trial suggest that patients who present with dysphagia due in part to diminished laryngeal elevation and receive NMES to the laryngeal elevators as an adjunct to traditional methods of therapy improved in diet upgrades and swallow function at a higher percentage as compared to those patients who did not receive the NMES protocol. There were also more than 4 200 therapy visits using this protocol in this study which would suggest that it is a safe adjunct to include in treating pharyngeal dysphagia with impaired laryngeal elevation. It was also evident that due to the continued progress over weeks of NMES therapy speech treatment was ongoing ranging from 2 3 months . This was compared to earlier discharge from therapy within 4 6 weeks due to lack of progress noted with traditional therapy only.

Therefore it will be seen that the apparatus and method of the present invention are well adapted to carry out the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those inherent therein. While a presently preferred embodiment of the apparatus and method have been described for the purposes of this disclosure numerous changes in the arrangement and construction of parts in the apparatus and steps in the method may be made by those skilled in the art. All such changes are encompassed within the scope and spirit of the appended claims.

