---

title: Extending data records for dynamic data and selective acceptance based on hardware profile
abstract: A system, method and data structure for processing basic client application data types to add thereto extension types and priority levels adapted for use by each of a plurality of set top box classes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08788534&OS=08788534&RS=08788534
owner: TVWorks, LLC
number: 08788534
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110202
---
This application is a continuation of co pending application Ser. No. 11 038 298 filed Jan. 19 2005 entitled EXTENDING DATA RECORDS FOR DYNAMIC DATA AND SELECTIVE ACCEPTANCE BASED ON HARDWARE PROFILE which claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 564 703 filed Apr. 23 2004 and entitled COMPACT MEMORY MAPPED DATABASE WIRE FORMAT. The contents of the above noted applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to information delivery systems and more particularly to efficiently providing information to clients such as set top boxes STBs having differing capabilities.

There is a wide variance in the hardware capabilities of set top boxes STBs coexisting on a single radio frequency RF network such as a cable television or satellite television distribution system. All of these STBs typically require the basic data normally associated with for example an interactive program guide IPG application operating within a middleware environment such that provided by Liberate Technologies Inc. of San Mateo Calif. The basic data includes several descriptor fields for each program such as program title rating description showing times and the like. This commonality of basic data leads to a database design geared towards the lowest common denominator of boxes. Such a database design while useful in serving a group of STBs or other clients is far from optimal in serving at least the higher capability STBs or other clients.

Various deficiencies of the prior art are addressed by the present invention of a system method and data structure for processing basic client application data types to add thereto extension types and priority levels adapted for use by each of a plurality of set top box classes. The extension types define extended data associated with a basic data type while the priority levels define the minimum class level i.e. capability level of a STB able to use that extension type.

In a set top box a method according to an embodiment of the invention comprises receiving the basic data needed to implement an application such as an interactive program guide application comparing the class of the set top box to the extension types for the basic data received and if appropriate receiving the extension data for the basic data. Furthermore an application programming interface API may allow an application to request the basic or extended data regardless of STB class since the request will be denied of the STB is not of a sufficiently high class.

A method according to an embodiment of the present invention comprises receiving at a client device basic data associated with an application comparing a class of the client device to extension types for the received basic data and if the client device class is sufficient for the extension type receiving extended data associated with the received the basic data.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures.

The present invention will be generally described within the context of an information distribution system that propagates content e.g. movies sports and the like various services e.g. video on demand Interactive Program Guide and the like and applications e.g. billing and other services to clients or set top boxes associated with users. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that while the invention has specific utility within the context of the systems described herein the invention has broad applicability to any system supporting client devices of varying capability.

The server is used to store and provide various assets such as audio visual content music data applications and the like to the head ends . The server may be associated with individual or multiple content suppliers and or application providers. The server communicates with the various head ends via a provisioning network . The provisioning network may comprise any network topology supporting the conveyance of information to and from the server . Moreover while depicted as separate components the invention may be implemented within a system wherein the server and head end are implemented within the same functional element. Generally speaking the server operates in part to provide information to and receive information from the STBs via their respective head ends and network . The information propagated between the server and STBs is processed as appropriate by the head end and network .

Each of the head ends is associated with a neighborhood of STBs. For simplicity only those STBs associated with the second head end are shown and described herein. Each head end operates to communicate content and other data to its respective neighborhood of STBs by broadcast channels received by all STBs narrowcast channels received by some of the STBs or point cast channels received by individual STBs. The head ends also interact with their STBs to establish and tear down sessions with the STBs as necessary to enable the delivery of content information services applications and the like. Generally speaking the head ends operate to distribute content and other information provided by the server to the set top boxes as appropriate as well as return STB messages billing information and other data to the server.

Each head end communicates with the STBs within its neighborhood via a relatively high bandwidth forward or downstream communications channel DOWN and a relatively low bandwidth reverse or upstream communications UP. The downstream DOWN and upstream UP communications channels are supported by a network topology such as a hybrid fiber coax cable television distribution system a satellite distribution system e.g. using a telephone network or reverse satellite link for upstream communications and the like. While not shown in an out of band OOB forward communications channel may also be supported by the network topology . In such an implementation of the network topology control messages and other information may be supplied to the STBs via in band messaging using the downstream communications channel DOWN or via out of band messaging using a forward communications channel not shown .

The STBs operate to receive broadcast to most or all STBs narrowcast to a region or defined group of STBs or pointcast to one STB also known as a unit singlecast information from the head ends via the network using the downstream communications channel DOWN or out of band forward channel .

Second STB within the neighborhood associated with second head end is depicted as including a plurality of application programs application programs . The application programs may comprise any of the applications used within the context of an STB such as an interactive program guide IPG application a VOD selection billing application and the like.

Within the system of the clients or STBs may comprise illustratively heavy set top boxes or thin set top boxes where a heavy STB or client has significant computational and or memory resources while a thin STB or client has constrained memory and or computational resources. Rather than simply heavy or thin set top boxes many more classes of set top boxes may be deployed. To simplify the discussion it will be assumed that within the system of three classes of set top boxes are deployed.

The controller of comprises a processor as well as memory for storing various control programs and other programs and data . The memory may also store an operating system supporting the programs .

The processor cooperates with conventional support circuitry such as power supplies clock circuits cache memory and the like as well as circuits that assist in executing the software routines stored in the memory . As such it is contemplated that some of the steps discussed herein as software processes may be implemented within hardware for example as circuitry that cooperates with the processor to perform various steps. The controller also contains input output I O circuitry that forms an interface between the various functional elements communicating with the controller .

Although the controller is depicted as a general purpose computer that is programmed to perform various control functions in accordance with the present invention the invention can be implemented in hardware as for example an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or field programmable gate array FPGA . As such the process steps described herein are intended to be broadly interpreted as being equivalently performed by software hardware or a combination thereof.

Topologies such as depicted with respect to the controller of may be advantageously employed within the context of the server head end network and or STB . That is by utilizing appropriate operating systems programs and or data the topology depicted with respect to controller is used to realize the functional elements discussed herein with respect to the various figures. As noted in the IO circuitry communicates with network as part of a server function communicates with network and network as part of a head end function and communicates with input device display device and network as part of an STB function.

The invention may be implemented as a computer program product wherein computer instructions when processed by a computer adapt the operation of the computer such that the methods and or techniques of the present invention are invoked or otherwise provided. Instructions for invoking the inventive methods may be stored in fixed or removable media transmitted via a data stream in a broadcast media or other signal bearing medium and or stored within a working memory within a computing device operating according to the instructions.

According to an embodiment of the present invention basic data records or structures area adapted to include an Extension Record which refers back to an original basic record and has specific data associated with it. For example a basic event record i.e. a basic record associated with an event such as a pay per view event may be extended to include a promotional image or jacket art. This solution allows the addition of new data fields to an existing record without requiring changes to the middleware supporting an application or service. Instead a new extension type is defined on the server for all applicable set top box classes and an application request the appropriate extension record for each applicable base record to access the new fields.

In order to allow low powered set top boxes to provide as much data as possible such as interactive program guide data the data records themselves are minimized and all set top boxes use the same records to conserve bandwidth i.e. broadcasting multiple versions of the data for different boxes is wasteful . For this reason we choose to extend the basic data provided for each data record with optional data extension records that can either be accepted or ignored by each set top box.

In one embodiment of the invention for each type of data record provided by the Services Database i.e. Event Service Event Details Message Application etc. a corresponding number of Extension types are provided. Each record type extension type pair on creation at the server is assigned one of four priorities never store low high or always store for each of the three set top box classes low end mid range high end .

In one embodiment of the invention for each specific record of a given type if the record has data applicable to one of the extension records the server formats that data as an extension record. The extension record is accessed by an applet or other client program which client program has the ability to interpret and otherwise process the extra data. Thus data structures suitable for use within the context of the present invention may be utilized by an application programming interface API within a middleware environment e.g. on a set top box . For example in one embodiment for Event Records an Extension Type 1 contains an image. This is assigned a low priority on all but high end boxes where illustratively the records are to be always stored. In this case an applet such as an applet implementing an interactive program guide when displaying details for a given event may request the extension type 1 for the current event identifier and will be returned data which the applet then interprets as illustratively an image to display promotional artwork related to the event.

The invention provides several advantages such as 1 additional data geared to high end boxes may be provided without encumbering low end boxes with the data or duplicating basic information for the high end boxes 2 additional data fields can be added to the data schema without requiring changes to the middleware and 3 a server UI component allows the addition of new extension record types dynamically so changes can be driven from third party applications and 4 third party software developers to may extend existing listing or other data without needing changes to either the middleware or server e.g. they can dynamically add new fields targeted to the set top boxes on which they want their application to run .

The base record portion comprises basic data from a data base associated with a service provider such as a video on demand VOD provider broadcast listing provider application provider or other service provider. The basic data within the base record comprises data that is to be used by every set top box within an information distribution system regardless of class level i.e. thin client thick client and the like .

The extension portion s is used to store extended data or a pointer address or other indicator to the location of the extended data. The extended data may comprise still or moving imagery e.g. promotional imagery and the like content related information such as title genre actors and the like as well as other data useful in implementing an advanced service or function within the client device. Generally speaking extended data stored within or pointed to by the extension portion of the data structure comprises any data that may be used to supplement the service or application supported by the basic data within the base record portion .

The priority portion includes priority per class identifier data. Specifically use of the extended data is optionally divided into a plurality of priority levels depending on the type of extended data provided. Some extended data may be crucial such as billing information while other extended data may be merely useful to provide. Additionally the priority level of the extended data is optionally related to the capability or class of a set top box receiving the data structure .

For illustrative purposes four priority levels are used namely Never Store NS low L high H and Always Store AS . Extended data associated with a NS priority level is never stored by the set top box while extended data associated with an AS priority level is always stored by the set top box. High priority data is preferentially stored before low priority data and then only if memory remains after the storage of the always store data. The priority levels are used to provide guidance to the STB during the processing of extended data.

For illustrative purposes the set top boxes are divided into three classes namely Low End LE Mid Range MR and High End HE set top boxes. A low end set top box may be considered to be a thin client set top box i.e. severely constrained computational and or memory resources . A high end set top box may be considered to be a thick client i.e. ample computational and or memory resources . A mid range set top box may be considered as having some constraints on memory and or computational ability. The STB classes are used to differentiate between set top boxes based upon a capability level such as a capability level identified according to processing and or memory constraints.

It should be noted that a single base record may be associated with multiple extension records and that each of the multiple extension records may be associated with a different set of priorities. For example an event record may have an image extension to be stored on heavy set top boxes only and a third party data extension to be stored on all set top boxes e.g. to enable access to a third party application by all set top boxes .

Generally speaking the invention operates to provide services functions at a level of functionality appropriate to each set top box. Basic services are nominally provided via the base record portion of the data structure . Where additional processing and or memory resources are available at the STB enhanced services and or functions are provided via the extension record portion of the data structure . The suitability of extended data for use in a particular set top box is based on the importance of the extended data to an application or service i.e. the priority as well the ability of the set top box to process the extended data i.e. the STB class . In this manner basic application of functionality is delivered to each class of set top box while those set top boxes capable of or benefiting from additional features are given the opportunity to utilize such features via extended data delivery within the extension portion of the data structure .

At step a next base record is received and stored. Referring to box the next base record is identified via a basic data record operating as a table of contents block which identifies all data blocks available including those for base records and extension records. Other means of identifying the next base record may also be used e.g. a linked list approach .

At step the priority class indicator is examined to determine at step whether the extended data included within or referred to by the extension record is appropriate to the set top box. If the extended data is not appropriate then the method proceeds to step to retrieve and store the next base record.

If the extended data is appropriate to the set top box then at step the extended data is retrieved and processed. Referring to box the extension portion includes either the extended data or information to be utilized or an address or other identification of the extended data or information to be utilized. That is the contents of the extension portion of the data structure may contain the specific information needed to invoke an advanced service or application function e.g. a promotional file and the like or an address or other indicator that is used merely to identify the specific information needed. If an address or indicator is provided then at step the STB propagates a signal back to the server to retrieve the specific information needed to invoke the advanced service or application function. The server processing of this request is discussed below with respect to .

At step the extended data is stored according to the priority per class identifier. That is extended data denoted as always store high priority and or low priority is stored as discussed above with respect to .

The routine of of is adapted to enabling a set top box to retrieve process and optionally store extended data records that are associated with basic data or base records. This processing is performed in a prioritized manner and according to the capabilities of the set top box. Thus the underlying structures utilized by a service or application may be the same for that application irrespective of the set top box within which that application is executed. The application only processes the extended data appropriate to its host set top box. In this manner portability of applications portability of data structures and commonality of application services may be provided within the context of an information distribution system including set top boxes or clients having different capabilities.

At step data records from a services data base are received. Referring to box the services data base may comprise a video on demand VOD database a broadcast listings database or some other application or services database.

At step those records associated with a particular extension type are identified. Referring to box the particular extension type may comprise an event type a service type an event detail an application type or some other type. Numerous extension types may be defined.

At step the received data records are adapted to include the extension data. That is at step the received data records are adapted to include a base record portion and an extension portion including a type identifier. Such adaptation may comprise for example the segmentation of application data into the basic data necessary to implement the application and extended data useful in providing enhanced application features or functions.

At step the data records are adapted to include priority levels for each set top box class. Referring to box the priority levels comprise illustratively a never store NS low L high H and always store AS priority level as previously discussed. More or fewer priority levels may be utilized. Referring to box the STB classes may comprise low end mid range high end as previously discussed. More or fewer STB classes may be utilized.

At step the adapted records are stored or forwarded to set top boxes per broadcast narrowcast and or point cast channels. That is at step the information provided by the modified data structure is propagated towards the set top boxes for subsequent processing and or storage as appropriate to the service or application.

At step a request for extended data item s is received from a client or more specifically a middleware API operating within the client to support an application or the application applet itself.

At step a request is propagated to the services database or listing proxy associated with the extended data item s . For example a listing proxy may comprise an application or functional entity that integrates content listings for both VOD and broadcast to provide an integrated listing. On those set top boxes where VOD operation is available one application is the generation of such an integrated listing in a timely and accurate manner. Other services databases may be accessed to provide appropriate information in response to the STB request.

The above methods may be used independently or in any combination. More specifically various functional elements within the system of may be used to perform all or only a portion of the processing tasks described with respect to the various Figures. For example using the method of the proxy servers may be used to create merged VOD broadcast listing IPG data. The data may be further processed by the server e.g. per the method of to provide additional IPG application data.

While the foregoing is directed to certain embodiments of the present invention these embodiments are meant to be illustrative not limiting. Other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof which is to be determined by the following claims.

