---

title: System and method for making user generated audio content on the spoken web navigable by community tagging
abstract: Methods and arrangements for creating and building subcategories in a user-based voice application. User posts are appended to a category in a voice application and subdivision of the category is prompted upon satisfaction of a first condition. The category is designated as a parent category, and at least one subcategory nomination are solicited from users. User input is solicited on appending at least one nominated subcategory to the parent category, and a nominated subcategory is appended to the parent category upon satisfaction of a second condition. User input is solicited to reassign a user post from the parent category to at least one subcategory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09053182&OS=09053182&RS=09053182
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09053182
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110127
---
The creation of audio content continues to evolve for use in new applications. One such application is the World Wide Telecom Web WWTW also referred to as the Telecom Web or the Spoken Web. The Spoken Web is a network of VoiceSites hosted on the telecom network wherein each voice site individually comprises a voice driven application. The Spoken Web system may be viewed as a telecom network parallel to the World Wide Web WWW that runs on the Internet infrastructure. VoiceSites are accessed by calling the number associated with the VoiceSite called a VoiNumber. A VoiLink is used to link the various VoiceSites to one another. A VoiceSite may be created or updated through a voice driven interface such that a user may create a VoiceSite or modify an existing VoiceSite using a cellular phone. The Spoken Web is an ideal solution for a large part of the world were the population does not have access to the devices necessary to access the Internet but cellular phone penetration is high. As a result the use of the Spoken Web and the number of VoiceSites continue to increase. Thus the volume of audio content associated with the Spoken Web continues to steadily expand.

More particularly the World Wide Telecom Web and interconnected voice applications VoiceSites and can be accessed by any voice capable e.g. landline or cellular telephone. In the course of an ordinary phone call the user interacts with a service or other application through speech or DTMF dual tone multi frequency or the signal to the phone company that is generated when one presses the touch keys of a telephone . Generally VoiceSites contain an ample amount user generated content this mainly being contained in the form of audio lists which have to be browsed linearly via telephone.

As such in the context of VoiceSites audio lists do tend to get longer over time with no efficient mechanism available to organize the content given its audio nature and length of the list. Categorization can normally be performed before the query is recorded so that the user can select a category but problems are presented in connection with not knowing what the user will record. Sub categories need to be created depending on the recorded content. Additionally meta information is generally unavailable usually this amounts to little more than the author s phone number and a timestamp. Speech to text systems also tend not to be reliable in the VoiceSites context or other related or analogous contexts resulting in a paucity of information about content.

In summary one aspect of the invention provides a method comprising appending user posts to a category in a voice application prompting subdivision of the category upon satisfaction of a first condition designating the category as a parent category soliciting at least one subcategory nomination from users soliciting user input on appending at least one nominated subcategory to the parent category appending a nominated subcategory to the parent category upon satisfaction of a second condition and soliciting user input to reassign a user post from the parent category to at least one subcategory.

Another aspect of the invention provides an apparatus comprising at least one processor and a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith and executable by the at least one processor the computer readable program code comprising computer readable program code configured to append user posts to a category in a voice application computer readable program code configured to prompt subdivision of the category upon satisfaction of a first condition computer readable program code configured to designate the category as a parent category computer readable program code configured to solicit at least one subcategory nomination from users computer readable program code configured to solicit user input on appending at least one nominated subcategory to the parent category computer readable program code configured to append a nominated subcategory to the parent category upon satisfaction of a second condition and computer readable program code configured to solicit user input to reassign a user post from the parent category to at least one subcategory.

An additional aspect of the invention provides a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith the computer readable program code comprising computer readable program code configured to append user posts to a category in a voice application computer readable program code configured to prompt subdivision of the category upon satisfaction of a first condition computer readable program code configured to designate the category as a parent category computer readable program code configured to solicit at least one subcategory nomination from users computer readable program code configured to solicit user input on appending at least one nominated subcategory to the parent category computer readable program code configured to append a nominated subcategory to the parent category upon satisfaction of a second condition and computer readable program code configured to solicit user input to reassign a user post from the parent category to at least one subcategory.

For a better understanding of exemplary embodiments of the invention together with other and further features and advantages thereof reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and the scope of the claimed embodiments of the invention will be pointed out in the appended claims.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments of the invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations in addition to the described exemplary embodiments. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the invention as represented in the figures is not intended to limit the scope of the embodiments of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment or the like means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment or the like in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided to give a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the various embodiments of the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials et cetera. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

The description now turns to the figures. The illustrated embodiments of the invention will be best understood by reference to the figures. The following description is intended only by way of example and simply illustrates certain selected exemplary embodiments of the invention as claimed herein.

It should be noted that the flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems apparatuses methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Referring now to a schematic of an example of a cloud computing node is shown. Cloud computing node is only one example of a suitable cloud computing node and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the invention described herein. Regardless cloud computing node is capable of being implemented and or performing any of the functionality set forth hereinabove. In accordance with embodiments of the invention computing node may not necessarily even be part of a cloud network but instead could be part of another type of distributed or other network or could represent a stand alone node. For the purposes of discussion and illustration however node is variously referred to herein as a cloud computing node .

In cloud computing node there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in cloud computing node is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces. As will be further depicted and described below memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

The disclosure now turns to . It should be appreciated that the processes arrangements and products broadly illustrated therein can be carried out on or in accordance with essentially any suitable computer system or set of computer systems which may by way of an illustrative and non restrictive example include a system or server such as that indicated at in . In accordance with an example embodiment most if not all of the process steps components and outputs discussed with respect to can be performed or utilized by way of a processing unit or units and system memory such as those indicated respectively at and in whether on a server computer a client computer a node computer in a distributed network or any combination thereof.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention in a voice application with a capability for user generated content such as VoiceSites audio lists automatically become candidates for categorization. Users suggest and record categories while other users validate and or finalize the implementation of such categories via a voting scheme. As a result ASR Automatic Speech Recognition and Speech to Text requirements are bypassed. A similar solution applies for moving elements from one category to another while provisions are available for merging duplicate categories and adding the same post to more than one category.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention and as shown schematically in a user suggests categories in a manner now to be described.

In the illustrative and non restrictive example of QA section in a voice application with a capability for user generated content such as VoiceSites includes three categories Agriculture Animals and Transport . Over time users append posts to the three categories . If the number of user posts in an existing category reaches a threshold n then that category becomes a candidate to be split into further categories. As shown in the number of posts in category Agriculture has reached the threshold n thus Agriculture is declared as a candidate to split into further categories.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a user votes once for a suggested category but can vote for multiple categories. However a user could change any vote of his or hers at a later time. Also the number of subcategories or time available for creating the same can optionally be capped such that a capability for users to suggest subcategories is stopped after a predetermined time period or upon reaching a predetermined threshold number of categories. However even in the absence of either type of cap it can be found that the rate of increase in the number of new subcategories will decay over time in any event in that a dynamic structure is being created by users and viable options for new subcategories may well end up being exhausted. In other words users will likely tend not to new sub categories over time to the extent such new ones may not be needed or at least may tend to refrain from voting on newly proposed subcategories that may be perceived as irrelevant.

Once the number of agreements on a subcategory reach a predetermined threshold m then that subcategory can be defined as a subcategory of the existing category

Accordingly as illustrated with regard to an illustrative and non restrictive embodiment of the invention as shown in a twofold step of nominating and voting takes place . Here five users Users propose or suggest or nominate distinct suggestions for subcategories namely Bajra Rabi one that is inaudible e.g. due to a poor connection Pashu palan and Kheti. This nomination stage is followed by voting where as shown Bajra and Rabi both satisfy threshold m e.g. a number of votes greater than or equal to 19 while the others fail to satisfy the threshold as shown 0 for the inaudible entry 1 for Pashu palan and 4 for Kheti .

As shown in with regard to an illustrative and non restrictive example in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention the two subcategories which satisfy threshold m are then ascertained as such and created so that they enter the system as an integral part of the voice application Thus Bajra and Rabi become dependents or subcategories and respectively of parent category Agriculture . When a user then visits the voice application then the new subcategories will be available in the tree and the system will automatically ask the user if he she wishes to visit those or other subcategories.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention and as shown schematically in users assign content to categories in a manner now to be described.

Essentially in accordance with the illustrative and non restrictive example shown inasmuch as two new subcategories Bajra and Rabi have been newly created users can then suggest one at a time a subcategory destination for each of the existing posts of category Agriculture . Users can also choose to keep a post unassigned in that they need not necessarily categorize each and every post. Here users are offered the choices between Bajra and Rabi once one of these receives a predetermined threshold of p agreements or votes e.g. 42 that post is moved to the suggested sub category. The example of shows that Bajra indeed has met a threshold p of 42 votes with Rabi only having accumulated 11 votes up to that point Accordingly as shown in the post Number is reassigned from the original list of posts and is appended to the Bajra subcategory .

By way of a variant embodiment in accordance with the invention a user can designate multiple categories for a single post. As a consequence of consolidation of the votes one post may apply to more than one category. In other words if a given individual post p or more votes for a first category and also p or more votes for a second category then the post is assigned to both of the first and second categories.

By way of a variant embodiment in accordance with the invention if two suggested subcategories spoken in audio are the same or otherwise very similar to one another then users can suggest to merge them together which can then be validated by unique votes from the users. In other words the suggestion to merge becomes an option on which to vote. In another variant if over time two categories appear similar or contain very few posts users can suggest to merge them together which can then also be validated by votes from users. To elaborate a user may find it worthwhile during a voting phase where final subcategories are being chosen to suggest a merger of two suggested subcategories. However if a user should realize that two categories are virtually the same or similar enough to warrant a merger after subcategories have been finalized then a merger step can be taken at that point as well

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention related content e.g. comments responses to a post can also be flagged with the same category leading to taxonomies of audio content. New ontologies semantic models can be derived from the content as more and more audio content is tagged and validating by the community through voting. In other words for each post other users can post comments and responses that can also get tagged with the same subcategory as the original post. As more and more related content is tagged semantic relationships can be derived among different posts leading to new ontologies and semantic models.

In accordance with a variant embodiment of the invention users can choose to have their own personalized user specific categories that can be structured and accessed as per their preferences. These can be built based solely on a particular user s votes. This can be extended to custom categories for a group of people. Thus for example if a user A votes for a category X he she may choose his her categories and assigned posts to appear when he or she subsequently accesses the voice application anew. The system can recognize his number e.g. based on standard technology such as caller ID. Accordingly irrespective of what others may vote for the user has an option to still use the categories and subcategories defined by his own votes.

In accordance with a variant embodiment of the invention in order to facilitate the iterative refinement of categories there could be several rounds of voting. For instance any subcategory that receives votes satisfying a predetermined threshold can be transitioned to a high vote category. Further voting on an already categorized content with votes above a threshold could lead to one of the following creation of a new category where this content gets copied creation of a sub category leading to creation of a hierarchical taxonomy and correction of incorrect categorization done in a previous round.

In accordance with a variant embodiment of the invention categorization along multiple dimensions can be facilitated by the system along facets of interest. Thus for instance instead of querying as to the category to which an item or post belongs the system can present other types of categorization questions e.g. Which period does it belong to Who has posted this What is your satisfaction level for this content Which domain this content belong to etc. 

As shown in user posts are appended to a category in a voice application and subdivision of the category is prompted upon satisfaction of a first condition . The category is designated as a parent category and one or more subcategory nominations are solicited from users . User input is solicited on appending one or more nominated subcategories to the parent category and a nominated subcategory is appended to the parent category upon satisfaction of a second condition . User input is solicited to reassign a user post from the parent category to one or more subcategories .

It can be appreciated from the foregoing that in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention an entire category tree can self evolve as and when complexity of the tree increases. Further some advantages in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention can now be appreciated. Generally many conventional efforts relate to content related navigation which mostly depends on conversion of speech to text. This is not feasible as yet for user generated audio content in different languages accents and dialects whereas embodiments of the invention are friendly to different languages accents and dialects in that content can be created on voice applications locally or among people in a local region so that content generators and consumers can and do end up using the same language dialect and to some extent accent. Other conventional efforts relate merely to crowdsourcing where users translate content label content edit documents etc. collectively. However to consolidate user input most of these techniques use string matching whose counterpart in speech is not very advanced especially in different languages.

In further recapitulation it can also now be appreciated that in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention user inputs are consolidated by encouraging users to vote on recorded audio and use the same recorded audio as the category labels for the content. In essence the system does not know what the categories are but the content is still categorized bypassing ASR inaccuracies .

Generally there are broadly contemplated herein in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention systems and methods for rendering user generated audio content on the spoken web navigable by community tagging. Essentially in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a user generated audio list or element in a voice application such as a VoiceSite is categorized by users using speech where a recorded category is voted on by community users to validate categorizations. Any category that reaches n number of posts automatically becomes a candidate for categorization using community tagging and community votes. The community suggests names for subcategories each of which may then be validated or not based on voting from other users. Speech recognition inaccuracies can be avoided in that in accordance with at least one embodiment the categories are recorded by the users voted by the users and played back to the users as is.

It should be noted that aspects of the invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wire line optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer device partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

This disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain principles and practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Although illustrative embodiments of the invention have been described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention are not limited to those precise embodiments and that various other changes and modifications may be affected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure.

