---

title: Method and apparatus for ultrahigh sensitive optical microangiography
abstract: Embodiments herein provide an ultrahigh sensitive optical microangiography (OMAG) system that provides high sensitivity to slow flow information, such as that found in blood flow in capillaries, while also providing a relatively low data acquisition time. The system performs a plurality of fast scans (i.e., B-scans) on a fast scan axis, where each fast scan includes a plurality of A-scans. At the same time, the system performs a slow scan (i.e., C-scan), on a slow scan axis, where the slow scan includes the plurality of fast scans. A detector receives the spectral interference signal from the sample to produce a three dimensional (3D) data set. An imaging algorithm is then applied to the 3D data set in the slow scan axis to produce at least one image of the sample. In some embodiments, the imaging algorithm may separate flow information from structural information of the sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09013555&OS=09013555&RS=09013555
owner: Oregon Health & Science University
number: 09013555
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110208
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 302 409 filed Feb. 8 2010 entitled Method and Apparatus for Ultrahigh Sensitive Optical Microangiography the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present application is related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 175 229 filed May 4 2009 entitled Method and Apparatus for Quantitative Imaging of Blood Perfusion in Living Tissue and Publication No. WO2008 039660 filed Sep. 18 2007 entitled In Vivo Structural and Flow Imaging the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Contract No. R01HL093140 R01EB009682 and R01DC010201 awarded by the US National Institute of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments herein relate to the field of imaging and more specifically to a method and apparatus for ultrahigh sensitive optical microangiography.

The assessment of blood flow in living tissue provides important information for diagnostics treatment and or management of pathological conditions. For example the assessment of cutaneous skin microcirculations may provide important information for pathological conditions in dermatology such as skin cancer port wine stain treatment diabetes and plastic surgery. Similarly assessment of the ocular perfusion within the retina and choroid of the human eye is important in the diagnosis treatment and management of a number of pathological conditions in ophthalmology such as age related macular degeneration diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma. Accordingly clinical and technical tools that can noninvasively image three dimensional 3D micro blood vessel networks in vivo are in demand.

Several techniques have been developed to meet this need. However current techniques suffer from various shortcomings which make them unsuitable for in vivo imaging in humans such as low sensitivity to blood flow insufficient resolution to provide useful depth information and or a long data acquisition time.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

The description may use perspective based descriptions such as up down back front and top bottom. Such descriptions are merely used to facilitate the discussion and are not intended to restrict the application of disclosed embodiments.

The terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still cooperate or interact with each other.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form NB or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the terms embodiment or embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments are synonymous and are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. .

With respect to the use of any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

In various embodiments methods apparatuses and systems for ultrahigh sensitive optical microangiography UHS OMAG are provided. In exemplary embodiments a computing device may be endowed with one or more components of the disclosed apparatuses and or systems and may be employed to perform one or more methods as disclosed herein.

Embodiments herein provide an UHS OMAG system that delivers high sensitivity with a relatively low data acquisition time. OMAG is an imaging modality that is a variation on optical coherence tomography OCT . The imaging is based on the optical signals scattered by the moving particles. The light backscattered from a moving particle may carry a beating frequency that may be used to distinguish scattering signals by the moving elements from those by the static elements. Accordingly OMAG can be used to image the flow of particles such as blood flow.

Various embodiments of the UHS OMAG system may include a light source a sample arm a reference arm and a detection arm. Illustrated in is an exemplary embodiment of an UHS OMAG apparatus suitable for ultrahigh sensitive 2 D and 3 D flow imaging. The illustrated UHS OMAG apparatus may include some features known in the art features which may not be explained in great length herein except where helpful in the understanding of embodiments of the present invention.

As illustrated UHS OMAG apparatus may include a light source . Light source may comprise any light source suitable for the purpose including but not limited to a broadband light source or a tunable laser source. A suitable broadband light source may include a superluminescent diode. In one embodiment light source comprises a superluminescent diode with a central wavelength of 1310 nanometers nm and a full width at half maximum bandwidth of 65 nm. In various embodiments light source may be a light source having one or more longer shorter wavelengths which may allow for deeper imaging. In various other embodiments light source may comprise a tunable laser source such as for example a swept laser source.

UHS OMAG apparatus may include optics to couple the light from the light source into the system. The apparatus may include a beam splitter for splitting the light from the optics into two beams a first beam provided to a reference arm and a second beam provided to a sample arm . In various embodiments optics may include but are not limited to various lenses or fiber optics components suitable for the purpose. Beam splitter may comprise a 2 2 single mode fiber coupler or any fiber coupler suitable for the purpose.

Reference arm may be configured to provide a reference light to a detection arm discussed more fully below from the light provided by light source for producing a spectral interferogram in combination with backscattered light from sample . Reference arm may include optics and a mirror for reflecting light from light source for providing the reference light. Optics may include but are not limited to various lenses suitable for the purpose.

Mirror may be stationary or may be modulated. Modulation may be equivalent to frequency modulation of the detected signal at detection arm . It has been observed that spectral interference signals interferograms may be modulated by a constant Doppler frequency by a modulated mirror in the reference arm . The spectral interference signal may then be recovered by de modulating the modulated signal at the modulation frequency. De modulation may be achieved using any suitable method including for example a digital or optical de modulation method. Modulation and de modulation of spectral interference signals may advantageously improve the signal to noise ratio resulting in an improved image quality for structural flow and angiographic imaging.

Sample arm may be configured to provide light from light source to a sample by way of optics a scanner and optics . Optics may be used to couple the light from beam splitter to scanner . Optics may include various optical lens for example an optical collimator. Scanner may include a pair of x y galvanometer scanners for scanning sample in an x y direction. Optics may comprise the appropriate optics for delivering the light from the scanner onto sample . In various embodiments scanner may also receive backscattered light from sample . Although the characteristics of the light provided to sample may depend on the particular application in some embodiments the lateral imaging resolution may be approximately 16 micrometers m determined by an objective lens that focuses light onto sample with a light power on sample being approximately 1 milliwatt mW .

The light returning from reference arm and the light returning from sample arm i.e. the spectral signal may be recombined and coupled into the beam splitter for introduction to detection arm . As illustrated detection arm comprises a spectrometer including one or more of various optics including but not limited to one or more collimators one or more diffracting transmission gratings and one or more lenses not illustrated . In exemplary embodiments optics may include a 30 millimeter mm focal length collimator a 1200 lines mm diffracting grating and an achromatic focusing lens with a 150 mm focal length. In various embodiments spectrometer may have a designed spectral resolution of for example 0.055 nm resulting in an optical range of approximately 6.4 mm in air where the positive frequency space is 3.2 mm and the negative frequency space is 3.2 mm. Such parameters are exemplary and may be modified in a variety of ways in accordance with the embodiments of the present invention.

In embodiments employing a broadband light source spectrometer may include a detector such as a linear detector configured to detect a spectral interference signal. Linear detector may include one or more of a line scan camera and an area scan camera. An exemplary suitable linear detector may be a charge coupled device CCD .

In embodiments wherein light source comprises a tunable laser rather than a broadband light source however UHS OMAG apparatus may include a diffusion amplifier that may comprise one or more single element detectors rather than spectrometer . For example one or more dual balanced photo diode detectors may be used.

In various embodiments reference arm sample arm and detection arm may include polarization controllers not illustrated . Polarization controllers may be configured to fine tune the polarization states of light in UHS OMAG apparatus . Although an UHS OMAG apparatus within the scope of the present invention may include more or less polarization controllers inclusion of polarization controllers in reference arm sample arm and detection arm respectively may advantageously maximize the spectral interference fringe contrast at linear detector or another suitable detector .

In various embodiments UHS OMAG apparatus may include one or more user interfaces for one or more purposes including controlling linear detector and scanner computing data using algorithms displaying images input of data and or output of data etc.

As noted above UHS OMAG apparatus may be configured to build a 3 D data volume set by scanning sample with a sample light in x y and z directions to obtain a 3 D spectral interferogram data set.

In various embodiments the scanner may include an x scanner and a y scanner. During the composite scan the x scanner may perform at least one fast scan along a fast scan axis and the y scanner may perform at least one slow scan along a slow scan axis. The fast scan axis may be orthogonal to the slow scan axis i.e. the fast scan axis and slow scan axis may define an x y plane . The fast scan may also be referred to herein as a B scan and the fast scan axis may also be referred to as the x axis the lateral axis and or the B scan axis. Similarly the slow scan may also be referred to herein as a C scan and the slow scan axis may also be referred to as the y axis the elevational axis and or the C scan axis. Each fast scan may be performed over a fast scan time interval and each slow scan may be performed over a slow scan time interval where the slow scan time interval is at least twice as long as the fast scan time interval. In some embodiments the scanner may perform the one or more fast scans contemporaneously with the one or more slow scans. In such embodiments a plurality of fast scans may be performed during one slow scan.

In each B scan fast scan there may be a number N of A scans. An A scan may be performed in the z axis orthogonal to both the x axis and the y axis. Each A scan may include a number K of pixels i.e. data points that provide imaging depth information in the z axis. Similarly a C scan slow scan may include a number M of B scans. In various embodiments the numbers N K and M may be at least two. Accordingly during a composite scan a three dimensional 3D data set may be produced. The 3D data set may be represented as the complex function I x y z where i 1 2 . . . N j 1 2 . . . M and k 1 2 . . . K. In various embodiments the magnitude portion of the 3D data set may be represented by the scalar function A x y z where I x y z A x y z exp i .

In various embodiments an imaging algorithm may be applied to the 3D data set to produce at least one image. The imaging algorithm may be applied on the slow scan axis i.e. y axis . In some embodiments the imaging algorithm may separate a moving component from a structural component of the sample. The image may be a full range structural image and or a separated structural flow image. In some embodiments the image may be of blood flow such as blood flow in a capillary and or in a retina of an eye.

In this disclosure reference is made to a prior OMAG method developed by the present applicants and described in Publication No. WO2008 039660 filed Sep. 18 2007 entitled In Vivo Structural and Flow Imaging the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. As compared to the prior OMAG method the embodiments herein provide a higher sensitivity and a lower data acquisition time. In some embodiments the number N of A scans in a B scan may be decreased while the number M of B scans in a C scan may be increased compared with the prior OMAG method. Additionally the imaging algorithm is applied on the slow axis i.e. C scan axis elevational axis rather than on the fast axis i.e. B scan axis lateral axis as in the prior OMAG method. This provides a higher sensitivity to the moving component of the image i.e. can image slower speeds while providing a lower data acquisition time. A high data acquisition time may be unsuitable for in vivo use since involuntary movement of the subject is unavoidable. Furthermore additional imaging algorithms are provided herein that differ from the prior OMAG method although imaging algorithms used in the prior OMAG method may also be used in some embodiments.

In the prior OMAG method high pass filtering is normally applied in the B scan frames obtained in the fast scanning axis to isolate the optical scattering signals between the static and moving scatters. The detectable flow velocity v is thus determined by the time spacing t between the adjacent A scans i.e. v 2n t where is the central wavelength of the light source and n is the refractive index of the sample. If a red blood cell moves along the probe beam direction at a speed v of less than or equal to 200 m s i.e. v 200 m s then it would require a time spacing t of at least about 1.5 milliseconds i.e. t 1.5 milliseconds for the system to sample the moving blood cell assuming 840 nm and n 1.35 . This time spacing translates into a scanning speed of about 643 A scans sec. Accordingly the total imaging time to acquire a 3D capillary flow image of a tissue volume would be prohibitively long. The problem is exacerbated further under conditions where the probe beam is substantially perpendicular to the blow flow such as when imaging the posterior segment of human eye which makes the effective blood flow that is probed by the OMAG system very slow because the Doppler angle approaches 90 degrees.

In this disclosure however the algorithm is applied to the slow axis. Accordingly the detectable flow signal is determined by the time spacing t between the adjacent B scans. In one exemplary embodiment the B frame rate may be 300 Hz see example one below so tmay be about 3.3 milliseconds. In this case the detectable flow would be about 140 m s while the system scanning speed i.e. A scan rate is not limited.

Accordingly the total imaging time to acquire a 3D capillary flow image of a tissue volume would be dramatically reduced.

In various embodiments the fastest flow that can be detected by the UHS OMAG system may determined by the system imaging speed. In one exemplary embodiment the imaging speed may have an A scan rate of 47 000 per second see example one below . Under this circumstance the maximum detectable velocity may be about 30 mm s.

In various embodiments the slowest flow that can be detected by the UHS OMAG system may be determined by the UHS OMAG system phase noise floor. In one exemplary embodiment with the imaging speed of 47 000 per second see example one below the system signal to noise ratio may be about 85 dB. The measured slowest detectable flow velocity may be about 4.0 m s.

In various embodiments the x scanner may be driven by a fast scan signal and the y scanner may be driven by a slow scan signal. That is the scanner may direct the probe beam along the fast scan axis and slow scan axis according to a property such as a voltage of the fast scan signal and the slow scan signal respectively. The fast scan signal and slow scan signal may be any suitable waveforms such as triangular square stepped and or sinusoidal.

Any suitable scanning protocol may be used to combine the fast scan signal and slow scan signal to produce a suitable 3D data set. For example shows an embodiment where the fast scan signal and slow scan signal are each a triangular waveform i.e. continuous scan . The fast scan signal has a higher frequency than the slow scan signal . As the slow scan is performed to obtain a C scan a plurality of fast scans are performed to produce a plurality of B scans. In some embodiments only one slow scan may be performed in the composite scan as depicted in . In other embodiments a plurality of slow scans may be performed and combined into the composite scans.

In various embodiments any suitable imaging algorithm may be applied to the 3D data set to produce the image of the sample such as a blood flow image. The imaging algorithm may be applied in the slow scan axis i.e. the y direction . The imaging algorithm may be designed to extract information on a moving component of the sample. Applying the imaging algorithm in the slow scan axis rather than the fast scan axis provides higher sensitivity thereby allowing imaging of relatively slow movement such as capillary blood flow within dermis which has typical flow in the range of about 100 to 900 m s in a resting condition and even slower in diseased states.

In some embodiments the imaging algorithm may include a differentiation operation in the y direction followed by an absolute operation. In some embodiments the differentiation and absolute operations may be performed on the complex function I x y z i.e. I x y z I x y z I x y z for j 1 2 . . . M . In other embodiments the differentiation and absolute operations may be performed on the magnitude portion A x y z of the complex function I x y z i.e. I x y z A x y z for j 1 2 . . . M . 

In other embodiments the imaging algorithm may include a high pass filter that may be applied to the 3D data set in the y direction slow scan axis in order to separate the optical signals scattered by the moving particles from the optical signal scattered by the microstructures i.e. the static particles. The high pass filter may use any suitable type of high pass filtering function.

Furthermore in some embodiments of the imaging algorithm the prior OMAG method as referenced above may be applied to the 3D data set in the y direction slow scan axis .

In embodiments where M is large compared to N i.e. B scans are densely taken in the y direction averaging adjacent B scans resulting from the imaging algorithm may improve the quality of final flow images. The number of B scans used to average can be any number larger than or equal to 2.

In embodiments where the y scanner is driven by a stepped function as depicted in the imaging algorithm may be applied independently at each step. Then the image at each step i.e. 1 x y z may be averaged to obtain a final B scan image of the blood flow at that step. In some embodiments the averaging may be done according to the following equation Eq. 1 where 1 2 . . . 1 

In various embodiments the algorithms described above may be applied to the 3D data set in the spectral frequency domain i.e. the data are in wavelength or wavenumber format . Further in various embodiments a logarithm operation may be applied to the 3D data set.

In various other embodiments the algorithms described above may be applied to the 3D data set in the time distance domain i.e. the data are in time or distance format . In frequency spectral domain optical coherence tomography it has been observed that the time distance domain signal and the spectral frequency domain signal are a Fourier transform pair.

Below are a description and results of an experiment conducted using a UHS OMAG system in accordance with various embodiments as applied to imaging capillary blood flows within dermis. Ideally an imaging tool for such an application must be able to resolve the capillary blood flows within dermis which are normally very slow in the range of about 100 to 900 m s at the resting condition and even slower at diseased states . In addition such tools must be able to provide depth information with an imaging resolution at a scale of capillary blood vessel about 10 m . Furthermore the imaging tool must have a relatively low data acquisition time to allow in vivo use since involuntary movement of the subject is unavoidable.

The system setup for UHS OMAG used in the experiment is similar to that described in R. K Wang and L. An Doppler optical micro angiography for volumetric imaging of vascular perfusion in vivo 17 8926 8940 2009 hereinafter Article 1 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Here the main parameters are briefly described. The system used a superluminescent diode as the light source which has a central wavelength of 1310 nm and a bandwidth of 65 nm that provided an axial resolution in air of about 12 m. In the sample arm a 50 mm focal length objective lens was used to achieve a lateral resolution of about 16 m. The output light from the interferometer was routed to a home built spectrometer which had a designed spectral resolution of about 0.141 nm that provided a detectable depth range of about 3 mm on each side of the zero delay line. The line scan rate of the camera was 47 000 per second 47kHz . With this imaging speed the signal to noise ratio was measured at about 85 dB with a light power on the sample of about 3 mW.

The system applied a scanning protocol similar to as discussed above that was designed to achieve ultrahigh sensitive imaging to the blood flow. First for each B scan i.e. x direction scan 128 A lines were acquired with a spacing of about 15 m between adjacent lines thus covering a length of about 2 mm on the tissue. The imaging rate was 300 frames per second fps . Note that with a 47 kHz line scan rate the theoretical imaging rate should be 367 fps. The reduced imaging rate at 300 fps was due to data transfer limitations during the handshake between the camera and the computer.

Secondly in the y direction i.e. C scan direction 1500 B scans were captured over 2.0 mm on the tissue which gave a spacing of about 1.3 m between adjacent B scans equating to an oversampling factor of about 12 in the C scan direction. The whole 3D data set was captured within 5 seconds.

The imaging algorithm was applied on the slow axis C scan direction rather than the fast axis B scan direction . As discussed in Article 1 the interference signal of one B scan captured by the CCD camera can be expressed as the following equation Eq. 2 2 cos 2 cos 2 2 

where k is the wavenumber t is the timing when an A line was captured Eis the light reflected from the reference mirror S k is the spectral density of the light source used n is the refractive index of tissue z is the depth coordinate a z t is the amplitude of the back scattered light v is the velocity of moving blood cells in a blood vessel which is located at depth z. The self cross correlation between the light backscattered from different positions within the sample is not considered in Eq. 2 because the light backscattered from the sample is weak compared to the light reflected from the reference mirror. Additionally the DC signals are not considered because they do not contribute to useful OMAG signals.

Prior OMAG systems used high pass filtering in the fast scanning axis i.e. B scan direction to isolate the optical scattering signals between the static and moving scatters. Thus the detect able flow velocity v is determined by the time spacing t between the adjacent A scans i.e. v 2n t wherein is the central wavelength of the light source and n is the refractive index of the sample. If the flow velocity in a capillary is less than or equal to 100 m s then it would require tto be greater than or equal to 4.7 ms for the system to have a chance to sample the blood cells flowing in the capillary. This time spacing translates into a scanning speed of about 213 A scans per second. Therefore the total data acquisition time to acquire a 3D capillary flow image of a tissue volume would be prohibitively long and not ideal for in vivo imaging of capillary blood flows.

In order to image the slow blood flow within capillary vessels while keeping the data acquisition time low the imaging algorithm is performed in the C scan direction slow scan axis . In this case Eq. 2 can still be used to represent the spectral interferogram signal captured by the system except that the time variable t now corresponds to the B scan numbers in one C scan. With this modification the requirement of oversampling in the B scan direction as was present in the prior OMAG system is relaxed making it possible to have a much faster B scan imaging rate provided that the line scan camera in the spectrometer is limited or fixed. The detectable flow velocity is determined by the time spacing t between adjacent B scans i.e. v 2n t. In the system setup described here the imaging rate is 300 fps so tis about 3.3 ms. Note that the imaging speed is at 47 000 A scans per second in contrast to 213 A scan per second required for prior OMAG method.

In the data processing the imaging algorithm first takes a differential operation on the captured B scan spectral interferograms along the C scan direction as in the following equation Eq. 3 1 2 3 . . . 1500 3 

where i represents the index of the B scans in the C scan direction. The differential operation suppresses the optical scattering signals from the static elements within scanned tissue volume. Alternatively high pass filtering may be used. Then a fast Fourier transform FFT is applied upon every wavenumber k t is now constant of Eq. 2 to obtain a depth resolved OMAG flow image with ultrahigh sensitivity to the flow.

The minimum detectable blood flow is determined by the system phase noise floor which can be expressed by the intensity signal to noise ratio S of the OMAG OCT system by 1 S. Thus with the system signal to noise ratio at 85 dB the minimum detectable flow velocity would be about 4.0 m s. However if a blood cell moves at 4 m s the system described here would not provide a continuous trajectory for this blood cell in the 3D OMAG flow image i.e. the trajectory would be seen as a broken line.

Because the system is very sensitive to movement the bulk motion of the sample may seriously degrade the final image result if the imaging algorithm is directly applied. To solve this problem the phase compensation method described in Article 1 is applied to the raw interference signal before applying the OMAG algorithm.

To test the performance of the UHS OMAG system described above for imaging blood flow the system was tested on the skin located on the backside of a hand of a male volunteer. For comparison the traditional OMAG and phase resolved optical Doppler tomography PRODT cross sectional flow images were also obtained. For these methods the system captured 2000 A scans over 2 mm at an imaging speed of 31 000 A scans per second in order to fulfill the oversampling requirement for these previous methods.

The results are shown in . The images in the top row are from the UHS OMAG system while those in the bottom row are from the conventional prior OMAG system. are the Fourier domain optical coherence tomography FDOCT structural images obtained from the captured interferograms for the UHS OMAG system and prior OMAG system respectively. Although they are similar they are not exactly the same due to the small subject movement when switching the system among the different approaches. However it is sufficient to provide a fair comparison of their ability to extract slow flow information. shows the image from after it is processed by the UHS OMAG system. shows the PRODT image of the UHS OMAG system which is based on the phase difference between adjacent B scans. Similarly shows the image from after it is processed by the prior OMAG system. shows the conventional PRODT image of the prior OMAG system which is based on the phase difference between adjacent A scans in one B scan. In the phase differences are calculated only when the structural signal is 15 dB above the noise floor.

It is apparent that the UHS OMAG approach outperforms the other methods. shows blood flows within the papillary dermis indicated by white arrows where only capillary blood vessels are present as well as the blood flows within reticular dermis indicated by red arrows where both the capillary and larger blood vessels are present. By calculating the phase differences between adjacent B scans the blood flow velocities within the capillaries are within the reach of the UHS OMAG e.g. see the white arrows in .

Because the conventional OMAG requires oversampling in the fast scanning direction i.e. B scan it is not sensitive to the slow blood flow within the capillaries which are normally below 100 m s. Accordingly the conventional PRODT approach totally failed in imaging any of blood vessels as seen in . It should be noted that there is a global noise flow background in the UHS OMAG flow image e.g. in which may be caused by some non moving scatters such as global motion etc. In this case de noising filters may be used to further enhance the UHS OMAG flow imaging quality.

In order to test whether the flow sensitivity of UHS OMAG approaches the system phase noise floor in this case about 4 m s as stated above a second set of images was obtained using a highly scattering flow phantom as the imaging target. The phantom was made of gelatin mixed with about 1 milk to simulate the background optical heterogeneity of the tissue. In making this background tissue precaution was taken so that the mixed gel was well solidified to minimize the possible Brownian motion of particles in the background. A capillary tube with an inner diameter of about 400 m was submerged in this background tissue and about 2 TiOparticle solution was flowing in it that was controlled by a precision syringe pump. Although such setup can precisely control the flow velocity in the capillary tube a flow speed as low as about 4 m s is difficult to provide. This is especially true considering that if the flow is stopped the Brownian motion of particles is unavoidable in the capillary tube. With this experimental condition the motion speed of particles due to Brownian motion would be randomly distributed within a range of several tens of microns per second. Due to these reasons the experiments tested the UHS OMAG system s ability to measure the Brownian motion of particles.

In the experiments the capillary tube was made almost perpendicular to the incident sample beam to avoid free fall of the scattering particles within the tube. The imaging results are shown in . is the OMAG OCT microstructural image of the flow phantom while is the corresponding UHS OMAG flow image. From this result it is clear that UHS OMAG is able to image the particle movements due to Brownian motion with almost no signals detected in the background region.

To examine in more detail the phase resolved technique was applied to the adjacent B scans of the UHS OMAG flow images to provide the velocity image of the flow phantom above. The result is shown in where it can be seen that the velocity values in the background region are low while those within the capillary tube are contrasted out primarily due to the Brownian motion of the particles. shows a plot of the calculated velocities across the center of the capillary tube at the position marked as the horizontal line in where the dashed box indicates the position of the capillary lumen. The velocity values of particle movements ranged from approximately 50 to 100 m s at this cross line position. The standard deviation of the values outside the dashed box region was evaluated to be about 4.5 m s which is close to the theoretical value of about 4 m s. This experiment concluded that the UHS OMAG system is sensitive to the flow as low as about 4 m s for the system setup used in this study.

The conventional PRODT image was also obtained of the same phantom. In doing so the system imaging rate was set at 31 000 A scans per second. Additionally the A line density across the B scan of about 2.5 mm was set at 4000 equating to a spacing between adjacent A scans of about 0.625 m. The corresponding results are given in respectively showing that PRODT totally failed to image the Brownian motion of the particles under the current experimental setup. Note that the standard deviation of velocity values shown in was about 180 m s thus it is not surprising that PRODT is not able to achieve satisfactory imaging performance.

After evaluation of the UHS OMAG system s imaging performance a subsequent experiment shows its capability to image the capillary blood flows within dermis in three dimensions. shows a schematic drawing of the blood vessel system of the human skin in which an interconnected network of vessels is characterized by regular structures on all levels. The human skin is composed of the cutis and the subcutis hypodermis HD . The cutis is further divided into the epidermis EP and the dermis DR . The dermis and subcutis are pervaded with a complex system of blood vessels while the epidermis is free of vessels. A superficial network comprises the interface between papillary PD and reticular dermis RD while a lower network is located on the border between dermis and subcutis. Vertical vessels connect both networks and thus make it complete. In the diagram arteries are shown in red and veins in blue. To show whether the ultrahigh sensitive OMAG is able to image the blood flow within the patent blood vessels as described above 3D blood flow images were acquired over the palm of a healthy volunteer as shown in where the black box indicates the scanning area about 2 2 mm .

The 3D OMAG imaging result of blood vessel networks is shown in shown together with the 3D micro structural image. to shows a cross sectional view where the blood flows within blood vessel systems within the skin are clearly delineated. Because the UHS OMAG sensitivity is as low as about 4 m s even the dynamics of sweat glands are imaged.

The projection views at different land mark depths are shown in . gives the projection view at the depths from 400 to 450 m which corresponds to the papillary dermis where the capillary vessels are dense e.g. indicated by the arrows . shows the depths from 450 to 650 m where the vessels are almost vertical that connect vessel networks between papillary dermis and reticular dermis seen as the bright spots in . The blood vessel network in reticular dermis 650 to 780 m and hypodermis 780 to 1100 m are shown in respectively. As shown the vessel diameter is smaller in the reticular dermis than in the hypodermis. These observations from ultrahigh sensitive OMAG are almost identical to that described in the literature demonstrating the power of the ultrahigh sensitive OMAG in the investigations of pathological conditions in dermatology.

These experiments demonstrated an ultrahigh sensitive OMAG system to image the volumetric microcirculation within the human skin. It was achieved by applying the OMAG algorithm along the slow scan axis i.e. the C scan direction as opposed to the fast axis i.e. the B scan direction . Comparing with the conventional OMAG flow image the UHS OMAG method delivers much better performance to extract slow flow information. Detailed 3D microvascular images obtained from the human skin by the UHS OMAG system are comparable to those described in the standard textbook. Therefore the ultrahigh sensitive OMAG may have great value in future clinical investigations of pathological conditions in human skin.

In another example the UHS OMAG system was used to obtain depth resolved images of the capillary networks in the retina and choroid of the human eye. shows the setup of the UHS OMAG system used to obtain the images. The UHS OMAG system is similar to that described in L. An and R. K. Wang 16 11438 11452 2008 hereinafter Article 2 . The UHS OMAG system used includes a light source to produce a probe beam with a wavelength centered at 842 nm and a bandwidth of 46 nm that provided an axial resolution in air of about 8 m. In a sample arm the light was delivered onto a human eye by a collimator an objective lens and an ocular lens . The sample arm further includes an x scanner and a y scanner for scanning the human eye along the x axis and y axis respectively.

In a reference arm a 20 mm water cell was used to compensate for the dispersion caused by the eye. A reference beam from the light source was reflected off a reference mirror to provide a reference light. An interferogram between the reference light and the light backscattered from the sample was sent to a home built ultrafast spectrometer via an optical circulator . The spectrometer included a collimator a transmission grating with 1200 lines mm a camera lens with a focal length of 100 mm and a 1024 element line scan CMOS detector capable of a 140 kHz line scan rate. The spectral resolution of the designed spectrometer was about 0.055 nm which provided an imaging depth of about 3 mm in air. The system sensitivity was about 90 dB measured with about 900 W power of light incident at the object and an exposure time of 6.9 s with the time interval t between A scans equal to about 7.4 s. The system further includes polarization controllers and to control polarization of the light beam.

The UHS OMAG system employed a scanning protocol similar to as discussed above designed to achieve ultrahigh sensitive imaging of the flow. Firstly the x scanner was driven by a 400 Hz sawtooth waveform meaning that the imaging rate is 400 frames sec fps . The duty cycle for acquiring each B scan i.e. x direction scan was about 75 in which we acquired 256 A lines with a spacing of about 12 m between adjacent lines that covered a size of about 3 mm on the retina. Secondly the y scanner was driven by a step function and the entire C scan includes 150 steps with a spacing between adjacent steps of about 20 m. In each step 8 repeated B scans were acquired. Accordingly it required 3 seconds to acquire one 3D data set covering an area of about 3 3 mmon the retina.

An imaging algorithm was then applied on the 3D data set along the slow scan axis i.e. C scan direction. In this case the detectable flow velocity is determined by the time spacing t between adjacent B scans. Because the imaging speed was 400 fps t 2.5 ms which would be sufficient to image the slow flows in capillaries see above . Finally the calculated OMAG signals at each step were collapsed into one B scan through ensemble averaging e.g. Eq. 1 resulting in 150 B scans to form the final C scan image i.e. 3D OMAG blood flow distribution.

To demonstrate the performance of the US OMAG system the system was used to obtain images on healthy volunteers. To reduce the eye and head movement the volunteer was asked to steer at a fixed position during the experiment. show the in vivo imaging results produced by one volume dataset captured at the macular region towards the optic nerve head. shows a typical cross sectional image B scan within the OMAG structural volume which is identical to the conventional OCT image where the typical morphological features within retina and choroid are visualized. gives the corresponding blood flow image obtained from the imaging algorithm where the capillary flows within the cross section of retina are abundant indicated by arrows as well as the blood flow signals in the choroid.

Because of the depth resolved nature the blood flows in the retina can be separated from those in the choroid. To do this the segmentation algorithm described in Article 2 was first used to identify the retinal pigment epithelium RPE layer. Then the flow signals from the retinal vessels were identified as the OMAG flow signals 50 m above the RPE layer to exclude the signals from photoreceptor inner and outer segments while those below the RPE layer were identified as the choroidal vessels. The segmentation resulted in two volumetric flow images one for retina and another for choroid which are annotated in by the labels of R and C respectively. Finally the maximum amplitude projection MAP was performed on each segmented retinal and choroidal volumes giving the blood flow distribution maps shown in retina and D choroid respectively. In there is seen a ring of blood vessels in the macular area around an avascular zone about 800 m in diameter denoting the fovea. This observation is in excellent agreement with the standard retinal pathology.

According to the literature the retina consists of three layers of capillary networks the radial peripapillary capillaries RPCs R and an inner R and an outer layer of capillaries R . The RPCs are the most superficial layer of capillaries lying in the inner part of the nerve fiber layer. The inner capillaries lie in the ganglion cell layers under and parallel to the RPCs. The outer capillary network runs from the inner plexiform to the outer plexiform through the inner nuclear layers. However the choroidal vessels in the macular region are not specialized like those in the retina. The arteries pierce the sclera around the optic nerve and fan out to form three vascular layers in the choroid inner capillary bed near RPE layer C medial arterioles and venules C and outer arteries and veins C . With these descriptions as the reference the OMAG blood flow signals obtained from the retinal and choroidal layers were further separated with respect to the RPE layer. The segmentation is pictorially illustrated in with the labels of R about 425 m above RPE R between 300 and 425 m above RPE and R between 50 and 300 m above RPE for retina and C from 0 to 70 m below RPE C from 70 to 200 m below RPE and C beyond 200 m below RPE for choroid respectively. After segmentation the blood flow MAPs within each land marked depth are shown in for retina and for choroid . The results are correlated well with the descriptions found in the literature.

The OMAG system running at 400 fps requires about 3 seconds to acquire one 3D blood flow image representing about 3 3 mmarea on the retina. At this speed the effects of subject movement on the final results are clearly noticeable the horizontal lines in and A F are the motion artifacts . There may be several solutions to amend this problem such as 1 the phase compensation algorithm developed in Article 2 may be used to minimize the motion artifacts before the imaging algorithm is applied. In doing so however it would inevitably increase the computational load required to obtain the meaningful 3D blood flow images because of the complexity of the compensation algorithms and or 2 the imaging speed may be further increased to minimize the motion artifacts. The current system speed is limited by the CMOS camera used in the spectrometer with a maximum line rate of 140 kHz. However a report has shown that a 4096 element CMOS camera is capable of a line rate more than 240 kHz. Therefore it would be expected that if this CMOS camera is used in the system the motion artifacts may be mitigated.

As shown above the UHS OMAG system may be capable of imaging detailed ocular perfusion distributions within retina and choroid. Applying the imaging algorithm on the slow scanning axis the system is sensitive to the ocular capillary flows. In addition due to the depth resolved nature the system may be able to provide detailed micro circulation within different land marked depths the results of which are in an excellent agreement with those described in the literature. The demonstrated superior imaging results show promise for future clinical applications for UHS OMAG in ophthalmology.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

