---

title: Headworn sound processor case
abstract: A case for encasing a hearing device to allow the wearer to continue wearing the device while engaging in activities such as swimming. In certain embodiments, the case comprises a protective portion for providing mechanical protection to the device and a flexible portion for housing a coil associated with the hearing device. In specific embodiments, the case also includes one or more acoustic ports.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08792664&OS=08792664&RS=08792664
owner: Cochlear Limited
number: 08792664
owner_city: Macquarie University, NSW
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20110120
---
The present disclosure relates to casings for hearing devices such as behind the ear BTE hearing devices.

Hearing aid devices are commonly used to assist users who have difficulty in hearing. The hearing device typically includes a processor which receives surrounding sounds processes the received sounds and converts these sounds to an electrical signal which is transmitted wirelessly via a coil acting as an antenna to a corresponding coil implanted inside the user s skull. The external coil is often conveniently aligned with the implanted coil via one or more magnets associated with each coil. The implanted coil is typically just part of an implant system. Other parts of this system vary depending on the type of system.

In a cochlear implant system for example the internal coil is connected to an implanted stimulator which generates stimulating electrical signals corresponding to the received electrical signals to stimulate nerves in the user s cochlea via an array of electrodes inserted into the cochlea. In Direct Acoustic Cochlear Stimulators DACS systems the internal coil is attached to an actuator which is implanted in the middle ear to stimulate the cochlea via mechanical stimulation in accordance with the electrical signals received by the implant from the external coil as described above. Other implant systems such as auditory brain stem implant systems exist and are within the scope of the invention. For the hearing device to function with any of these implant systems the hearing device must be functionally connected to an internal system.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a case for a BTE hearing device is provided. The case comprises a sealable opening through which the hearing device can be placed in the case and a substantially flexible portion for receiving an antenna portion of the hearing device.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a case for a BTE hearing device is provided. The case comprises a protective portion the protective portion being adapted to provide mechanical force protection for a first portion of a hearing device and a flexible portion the flexible portion being adapted to house a second portion of the hearing device such that the second portion maintains a fixed position relative to a reference point external to the case while the protective portion moves relative to the flexible portion

In accordance with a still other embodiment a case for a BTE hearing device is provided. The case comprises a first portion adapted to fix a first position of a first portion of a hearing device within the case relative to a port located on the first portion of the case and a second portion adapted to fix a second position of a second portion of the hearing device relative to a location external to the case.

In some embodiments the case also has an acoustic port to facilitate sounds transmission to the device in the case and a support inside the case to hold the device in a certain orientation.

Embodiments of the present invention are generally directed to a case that allows the wearer to continue conveniently using the hearing device when engaged in sporting or other activities that may otherwise affect or damage the hearing device. In certain embodiments the case completely encase the hearing device and allows the coil to be positioned in its usual position as shown in .

In embodiments described herein the protection or force reduction is accomplished through the selection of hard or hardened materials such as injection mouldable plastic e.g. Polycarbonate Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene metal and or hardened rubber. In other embodiments the protection or force reduction is accomplished through other techniques such as softer or less protective material formed into protective shapes or structures including skeletal structures ribbing and the like. In yet further embodiments the protection or force reduction is accomplished through other techniques such as providing a force absorbing or damping material within the protective portion . In one embodiment a foam lining is provided on the inner surface which blankets and holds the portion of the hearing device within the protective portion . In another embodiment a gel like substance such as silicone is used to line the or a part of the inner surface of protective portion .

In this embodiment the case also comprises a flexible portion . In embodiments described herein the flexibility of the flexible portion is accomplished through the selection of soft materials including soft rubber silicon and or polyurethane. In some embodiments a part of the flexible portion distal from the protective portion is made from a non flexible material but is connected to the protective portion by a flexible material such as silicone rubber to allow movement of the flexible portion with respect to the protective portion. The term soft as used herein will be understood to mean sufficiently deformable or malleable to allow the flexible portion to substantially conform to the shape of the surface of the wearer s head at the location of the received coil . This can improve the co location of coil and the corresponding implanted coil and the communication of RF signals between the coil and corresponding implanted coil.

In other embodiments the flexible portion is made of the same material as the protective portion but is thinned or otherwise structurally compromised to allow flexing within the flexible portion . In one embodiment strips of material are etched away or otherwise removed to allow flexing. In yet further embodiments flexible portion is made of a protective material however there is a region over which the coil sits when in the case that is flexible or soft to allow the coil to conform to the shape of the wearer s head at that point. In one embodiment this region is about 40 mm to about 50 mm in diameter.

The protective portion is made by any suitable techniques including conventional injection moulding for plastic materials metal injection moulding. In one embodiment protective portion is formed by machining. The flexible portion is also made by any suitable method including conventional injection or transfer moulding. In one embodiment flexible portion is overmoulded onto the protective portion . The overmoulding process provides bonding. In embodiments with separate moulding a glue is used in conjunction with some mechanical fixation such as snaps and or clips.

In some embodiments a seal is provided between the interface of the lid and the base . In the embodiment in the seal is provided by two O rings . In some embodiments other types of sealing are used including tongue and groove clips screw threads or using a grease or gel.

In one embodiment flexible portion is provided with a magnet to attract the magnet of the coil to help locate and retain coil within flexible portion . This arrangement is shown in . shows the case of with a hearing device encased within. In one embodiment magnet is about 10 mm in diameter and about 1 mm in thickness. In another embodiment magnet is about 5 mm in diameter and about 1 mm in thickness. In another embodiment magnet is about 3 mm in diameter and about 0.5 mm in thickness.

As can be seen at least a part of the processor or processor portion is housed within protective portion while the antenna portion or coil is housed within the flexible portion .

In some embodiments all or a portion of the case is transparent or otherwise translucent to allow visual access to the medical device housed within case . This will allow observing of any water ingress and will allow any indicators such as LEDs or other indicator lights to be viewed from the outside. As will be understood some hearing device models can indicate one or more modes of operation of the hearing device via one or more visual indicators.

In some embodiments the division between the hard flexible portions is graduated so that the protective portion transitions into the flexible portion . In other embodiments the protective portion and the flexible portion is provided by the same material whose thickness is varied so that the material is thicker towards one end of the case to provide the protective portion and is thinner and more pliable towards the other end of the case to provide the flexible portion . In one embodiment the thickness varies from about 5 mm to about 2 mm from one end to the other end. In one embodiment the thickness of the material in the flexible portion that will be disposed between the coil and the head of the user in use is equal to or less than about 2 mm. This includes between about 2 mm and about 1 mm between about 1.5 mm and about 0.5 mm between about 0.5 mm and about 0.1 mm about 1.8 mm about 1.6 mm about 1.4 mm about 1.2 mm about 1.1 mm about 1 mm about 0.8 mm about 0.6 mm about 0.4 mm about 0.3 about 0.2 mm and about 0.1 mm.

In some embodiments flexible portion is shaped differently to allow for variations in the placement of the coil to accommodate different locations of the implanted coil due to surgeons individual styles or preferences in implant placement. In yet further embodiments at least a portion of the flexible portion is flexible to allow flexible placement of the coil over the implanted coil with respect to the rest of the case .

In one embodiment and as shown in the positioning and retaining of the processor within the case is facilitated by the use of a support within case . In one embodiment support comprises a tray which is removable from case . In one embodiment tray is itself constructed so as to provide location guides such as moulding in the shape of the processor or guide pins or guide walls.

In one embodiment this position maintains the processor within about 10 mm of the acoustic port . In one embodiment this position or orientation is such that the microphone of the processor is directed towards the acoustic port as shown in . This orientation provides the most efficient access to the incoming sound energy into case via acoustic port .

A particular advantage of this arrangement is that there is no additional equipment required to allow the hearing device to continue to provide hearing assistance to the wearer . In particular in some prior art systems where the hearing device is housed in a body worn casing supported at the waist for example there is also required a wire or cord connecting the processor to the coil on the user s head. In the arrangements disclosed herein there is no need for any wires or cords connecting the hearing device to the implanted device or for providing an extension cord between the processor worn on the body and the coil worn on the head. The absence of such wires reduces inconvenience and eliminates any choking hazard to the wearer.

While in some embodiments the case is retained to the wearer s head by the magnetic attraction between the coil and the corresponding implanted coil in some embodiments additional methods are also used to further secure the position of the case on the wearer s head. These additional methods may depend upon the type of activity being undertaken. show a number of possible methods or apparatus for retaining the case to the wearer s head.

In even further security in retention is provided by a clip in one embodiment which in use is wrapped around the case and the strap . In illustrating another swimming application case in one embodiment is retained underneath a swimming cap . In one embodiment as shown in a general purpose application of a headband is used to retain case to the wearer s head .

In one embodiment case is shaped see for example so as to be able to be used on either or both sides of the wearer s head. This obviates the need to manufacture two different types of case shapes one for each side.

In another embodiment at least a portion of the case is hydrodynamically shaped so as to be biased towards the wearer s head when water flows over the case . This would occur in activities such as swimming laps in a pool or swimming underwater in a forward direction. show a case that is hydrodynamically shaped. shows case with protective portion and flexible portion . In this embodiment flexible portion is substantially transparent or translucent showing a part of the support in the form of a tray inside the case. Also visible in this view are two acoustic ports . is a plan view. In this view it can be seen that case is symmetrical about a longitudinal centre line thus allowing the case to be worn on either side of the wearer s head. shows a front end view of the case and shows a side view showing the profile of the case that provides a hydrodynamic effect.

In another aspect there is provided a method of encasing a BTE hearing device for the wearer to use during an activity. In this method as shown in the method comprises in step placing the coil in a flexible portion of the case . In step the processor is placed in a protective portion of the case. In step the case is sealed and in step the case is located on the wearer s head such that the coil is co located with a corresponding implanted coil.

It will be appreciated that the step of placing the processor in the protective portion could be performed before the step of placing the coil in the flexible portion.

In one embodiment the step of placing the coil in the flexible portion further comprises locating the coil in the flexible portion with a magnet in the flexible portion. In one embodiment the step of placing the processor in the protective portion further comprises orienting the processor within the protective portion such that a microphone of the processor is directed towards an acoustic port of the case.

In yet another possible embodiment described herein and as illustrated in the case is formed entirely of the flexible portion . In this embodiment the case will not provide the protection against mechanical impact however it will still provide the advantages of protection against moisture or dust and will provide the advantage of conforming to the wearer s head thus allowing the coil to properly conform to the wearer s head as previously described.

In one embodiment as illustrated in case comprises a sealable element allowing the case to be opened to insert a hearing device and resealed to seal the hearing device therein. In one embodiment the case is shaped so as to substantially conform to a general outline of the hearing device.

In one embodiment as shown in a magnet is also provided at a convenient location within the case so as to allow more effective placement of the coil of the hearing device within the case. In one embodiment as shown in the case is provided with an acoustic port .

In one embodiment the case combines one or more of the features described with reference to . In one embodiment for the example the case will have both the magnet and the acoustic port as shown in .

In one embodiment a separate support such as a tray is provided to further assist the location and orientation of the hearing device within the entirely soft case . In one embodiment a foam support is provided to either provide the support entirely or to sit within the tray . shows an embodiment of this aspect comprising support in the form of a foam support retaining processor in an orientation such that its microphone is directed toward acoustic port as previously described. Coil is also located towards the end of the case and retained by a magnet . Sealable opening is provided to allow the hearing device and support to be placed in and removed from case .

In one embodiment a portion of case is provided by protective portion as previously described and as illustrated in for example.

Another embodiment and aspect of the present invention is illustrated in . In one embodiment a case comprises a hardened portion as previously described. In one embodiment the hardened portion has a portal which in one example is an acoustic port . The hardened portion is adapted to house a first portion of a hearing device in such a way that the first portion is maintained in a substantially fixed position adjacent to the portal. In one embodiment the first portion is a microphone of the hearing device. In another embodiment the first portion is a processor of the hearing device .

As seen in the case also comprises a flexible portion which is adapted to house a second portion of the hearing device such that the second portion maintains a fixed position relative to a reference point external to the case when the hardened portion moves.

This aspect is illustrated in which shows the original position of case as was shown in illustrated in as dotted lines. The new position of case after some movement is illustrated in full lines as case . From this view it can be seen that even though the hardened portion has moved from its original position together with the first portion of the hearing device the second portion of the hearing device has maintained its original position since the flexible portion is able to flex to allow the hardened portion to move with respect to the flexible portion. In this example it is seen that the second portion of the hearing device has maintained its position relative to an external reference point. In one embodiment the second portion is a coil and the reference point is an implanted coil and in one particular example is a magnet of the implanted coil as shown in .

It will also be seen that even though hardened portion has moved the first portion e.g. microphone has not moved relative to the port and is still able to receive sounds from outside the case .

Accordingly in this embodiment the case allows the coil to be stably retained in a position over the implanted coil to allow continued RF communication between the coil and the implanted coil to allow the user continued use of the hearing device even if the user s activities such as swimming or running result in some movement of the case.

In another embodiment case comprises a first portion that is adapted to receive a first portion of a hearing device and fix its position within the case relative to a port located on the first portion. In one embodiment the port is an acoustic port. In this embodiment case also has a second portion which is adapted to receive and fix in position a second portion of the hearing device relative to a position external to the case . In one embodiment the second portion is flexile such that a movement of the first portion of the hearing device relative to the second portion of the hearing device does not move the second portion of the hearing device significantly from its position. In one embodiment the second portion of the hearing device does not move more than about 5 mm from the position. In one embodiment the second portion of the hearing device is a coil. In one embodiment the position is a location on the wearer s head over an implanted coil. In this embodiment because the case allows a part of the hearing device to move relative to another part for example the coil the coil still maintains effective or functional contact with the implanted coil to allow sufficient signals to be transmitted from the coil to the implanted coil to provide a hearing sensation in the wearer.

This action is also illustrated in which shows relative movement between the first portion of the hearing device for example processor and the second portion of the hearing device for example coil .

In one embodiment the first portion is hardened such that a portion of mechanical force applied to the hardened portion is not applied to the hearing device within the case.

It will be understood that that the various aspects have been described with reference to specific embodiments and that many variations and modifications can be made within the present disclosure. It will also be understood that the various aspects of the case and its embodiments and methods are equally applicable to any hearing device or system that requires a coil to engage with the wearer s head including a cochlear implant system and a Direct Acoustic Cochlear Stimulation DACS system. Other applicable systems include 

ABI Auditory Brainstem Implant an electrode for hearing placed in the brainstem such as Cochlear Corporation s Nucleus 24 R Multichannel Auditory Brainstem Implant Multichannel ABI . The auditory brainstem implant consists of a small electrode that is applied to the brainstem where it stimulates acoustic nerves by means of electrical signals. The stimulating electrical signals are provided by a signal processor processing input sounds from a microphone located externally to the user. This allows the user to hear a certain degree of sound.

FES Functional Electrical Stimulation FES is a technique that uses electrical currents to activate muscles and or nerves restoring function in people with paralysis related disabilities.

SCS Spinal Cord Stimulator This system delivers pulses of electrical energy via an electrode in the spinal area and may be used for pain management. An example of a commercially available system is the RESTOREPRIME system by Medtronic Inc USA.

