---

title: Method and system for merging disparate virtual universes entities
abstract: A migration tool for merging disparate virtual universes by selecting a source region or source account, selecting a destination edge or destination account, retrieving and storing virtual universe information for the source region or account, inserting the virtual universe resources of the source region or account into the destination region or account, activating the inserted resources, and deleting the source resources from the source region or account.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08019797&OS=08019797&RS=08019797
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08019797
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110113
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 026 045 filed Feb. 5 2008 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to cross platform scheduling technologies for Virtual World systems Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing systems and the like.

Whereas the determination of a publication technology or product as prior art relative to the present invention requires analysis of certain dates and events not disclosed herein no statements made within this Background of the Invention shall constitute an admission by the Applicants of prior art unless the term Prior Art is specifically stated. Otherwise all statements provided within this Background section are other information related to or useful for understanding the invention.

 Virtual Worlds also sometimes referred to as Massively Multi Player Online Role Playing Games MMPorg systems are well known in the art for their ability to allow users or players to assume a virtual identity and to interact through that identity with the system s logic as well as with other users or players through their own virtual identities. Some of the presently available Virtual World systems and products include but are not limited to Second Life MindArk PE AB s Intropia and Makena Technologies Therecom where represents the period or dot character . .

By configuring the virtual identity a user is enabled to create a persona of his or her liking and to interact within the virtual world and the other users who are also represented by their own virtual avatars and identities. Most Virtual Worlds allow the user to select or create a three dimensional representation of his or her virtual identity referred to as an avatar. Avatars can be realistic in their appearance or can be a fantasy creature. Other characteristics such as movement speed and restrictions communications abilities and interaction limitations or abilities can be defined for a user s virtual identity.

While these types of virtual worlds began as gaming and role playing products they have now evolved into useful platforms for other purposes. One such purpose is an evolution of online meetings online conferences and online training or education.

Previous products directed towards these purposes were based on presenting the real voice and or real image of each attendee to an online meeting either through sharing of still photos of each attendee or through use of webcams to transmit live images. Communications were enabled through simultaneous use of telephone lines or through use of voice over Internet Protocol VoIP and or text messaging.

While these systems offer many advantages such as saving travel costs allowing quicker dissemination of information and fostering near face to face relationships one draw back of such online meetings is that there is little or no sensation of community during the online conference each attendee still feels as if he or she is using a computer alone to converse with the other attendees.

With the evolution of Virtual World s into this manner of usage many of these issues are resolved because there is a greater sense of community or social interaction as the experience is much more complete and realistic. Each attendee feels much more immersed in the meeting virtual environment including the virtual meeting room or space and each attendee has a greater sensation of the other attendees presence because each attendee has a virtual position within the group of attendees which cannot be had from a standard web meeting.

Further the facilities issue is alleviated through hosting meetings training and conferences in Virtual World s. Rather than renting expensive meeting facilities and providing expensive real display fixtures and furniture a company can configure a virtual meeting in a virtual world which has all of the appearance factors as desired at a fraction of the costs of a corresponding real world meeting space. Even better the virtual meeting space can be reconfigured as needed such as expanding the space when a larger than expected attendee group signs up to attend.

Since many original virtual worlds did not restrict where players could go within the world except for restrictions placed on certain levels or privileges for each player in order to host business to business functions some modifications to the virtual world systems were made.

Chief among these modifications were definitions and controls put in place to allow definition of private virtual worlds where one or more users could control which other users could enter the private virtual world. This allows a company such as IBM to create multiple private virtual worlds within a virtual world system such as Second Life for the purposes of employee training customer meetings etc. without the concern for third parties accessing sensitive or confidential information.

The present invention provides migration tool for merging disparate virtual universes by selecting a source region or source account selecting a destination edge or destination account retrieving and storing virtual universe information for the source region or account inserting the virtual universe resources of the source region or account into the destination region or account activating the inserted resources and deleting the source resources from the source region or account.

The inventors of the present invention have recognized and solved problems previously unrecognized by others in the art of managing virtual world resources especially in the context of merging a first virtual world into two or more disparate and separate virtual worlds to form a single combined virtual world.

Whereas at least one embodiment of the present invention incorporates uses or operates on with or through one or more computing platforms and whereas many devices even purpose specific devices are actually based upon computing platforms of one type or another it is useful to describe a suitable computing platform its characteristics and its capabilities.

Therefore it is useful to review a generalized architecture of a computing platform which may span the range of implementation from a high end web or enterprise server platform to a personal computer to a portable PDA or wireless phone.

In one embodiment of the invention the functionality including the previously described logical processes are performed in part or wholly by software executed by a computer such as personal computers web servers web browsers or even an appropriately capable portable computing platform such as personal digital assistant PDA web enabled wireless telephone or other type of personal information management PIM device. In alternate embodiments some or all of the functionality of the invention are realized in other logical forms such as circuitry.

Turning to a generalized architecture is presented including a central processing unit CPU which is typically comprised of a microprocessor associated with random access memory RAM 24 and read only memory ROM 25 . Often the CPU is also provided with cache memory and programmable FlashROM . The interface between the microprocessor and the various types of CPU memory is often referred to as a local bus but also may be a more generic or industry standard bus.

Many computing platforms are also provided with one or more storage drives such as hard disk drives HDD floppy disk drives compact disc drives CD CD R CD RW DVD DVD R etc. and proprietary disk and tape drives e.g. Iomega Zip and Jaz Addonics SuperDisk etc. . Additionally some storage drives may be accessible over a computer network.

Many computing platforms are provided with one or more communication interfaces according to the function intended of the computing platform. For example a personal computer is often provided with a high speed serial port RS 232 RS 422 etc. an enhanced parallel port EPP and one or more universal serial bus USB ports. The computing platform may also be provided with a local area network LAN interface such as an Ethernet card and other high speed interfaces such as the High Performance Serial Bus IEEE 1394.

Computing platforms such as wireless telephones and wireless networked PDA s may also be provided with a radio frequency RF interface with antenna as well. In some cases the computing platform may be provided with an infrared data arrangement IrDA interface too.

Computing platforms are often equipped with one or more internal expansion slots such as Industry Standard Architecture ISA Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI or proprietary interface slots for the addition of other hardware such as sound cards memory boards and graphics accelerators.

Additionally many units such as laptop computers and PDA s are provided with one or more external expansion slots allowing the user the ability to easily install and remove hardware expansion devices such as PCMCIA cards SmartMedia cards and various proprietary modules such as removable hard drives CD drives and floppy drives.

Often the storage drives communication interfaces internal expansion slots and external expansion slots are interconnected with the CPU via a standard or industry open bus architecture such as ISA EISA or PCI. In many cases the bus may be of a proprietary design.

A computing platform is usually provided with one or more user input devices such as a keyboard or a keypad and mouse or pointer device and or a touch screen display . In the case of a personal computer a full size keyboard is often provided along with a mouse or pointer device such as a track ball or TrackPoint . In the case of a web enabled wireless telephone a simple keypad may be provided with one or more function specific keys. In the case of a PDA a touch screen is usually provided often with handwriting recognition capabilities.

Additionally a microphone such as the microphone of a web enabled wireless telephone or the microphone of a personal computer is supplied with the computing platform. This microphone may be used for simply reporting audio and voice signals and it may also be used for entering user choices such as voice navigation of web sites or auto dialing telephone numbers using voice recognition capabilities.

Many computing platforms are also equipped with a camera device such as a still digital camera or full motion video digital camera.

One or more user output devices such as a display are also provided with most computing platforms. The display may take many forms including a Cathode Ray Tube CRT a Thin Flat Transistor TFT array or a simple set of light emitting diodes LED or liquid crystal display LCD indicators.

One or more speakers and or annunciators are often associated with computing platforms too. The speakers may be used to reproduce audio and music such as the speaker of a wireless telephone or the speakers of a personal computer. Annunciators may take the form of simple beep emitters or buzzers commonly found on certain devices such as PDAs and PIMs.

These user input and output devices may be directly interconnected to the CPU via a proprietary bus structure and or interfaces or they may be interconnected through one or more industry open buses such as ISA EISA PCI etc. The computing platform is also provided with one or more software and firmware programs to implement the desired functionality of the computing platforms.

Turning to now more detail is given of a generalized organization of software and firmware on this range of computing platforms. One or more operating system OS native application programs may be provided on the computing platform such as word processors spreadsheets contact management utilities address book calendar email client presentation financial and bookkeeping programs.

Additionally one or more portable or device independent programs may be provided which must be interpreted by an OS native platform specific interpreter such as Java scripts and programs.

Often computing platforms are also provided with a form of web browser or micro browser which may also include one or more extensions to the browser such as browser plug ins .

The computing device is often provided with an operating system such as Microsoft Windows UNIX IBM OS 2 IBM AIX open source LINUX Apple s MAC OS or other platform specific operating systems. Smaller devices such as PDA s and wireless telephones may be equipped with other forms of operating systems such as real time operating systems RTOS or Palm Computing s PalmOS .

A set of basic input and output functions BIOS and hardware device drivers are often provided to allow the operating system and programs to interface to and control the specific hardware functions provided with the computing platform.

Additionally one or more embedded firmware programs are commonly provided with many computing platforms which are executed by onboard or embedded microprocessors as part of the peripheral device such as a micro controller or a hard drive a communication processor network interface card or sound or graphics card.

As such and describe in a general sense the various hardware components software and firmware programs of a wide variety of computing platforms including but not limited to personal computers PDAs PIMs web enabled telephones and other appliances such as WebTV units. As such we now turn our attention to disclosure of the present invention relative to the processes and methods preferably implemented as software and firmware on such a computing platform. It will be readily recognized by those skilled in the art that the following methods and processes may be alternatively realized as hardware functions in part or in whole without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

In another embodiment of the invention logical processes according to the invention and described herein are encoded on or in one or more computer readable media. Some computer readable media are read only e.g. they must be initially programmed using a different device than that which is ultimately used to read the data from the media some are write only e.g. from the data encoders perspective they can only be encoded but not read simultaneously or read write. Still some other media are write once read many times.

Some media are relatively fixed in their mounting mechanisms while others are removable or even transmittable. All computer readable media form two types of systems when encoded with data and or computer software a when removed from a drive or reading mechanism they are memory devices which generate useful data driven outputs when stimulated with appropriate electromagnetic electronic and or optical signals and b when installed in a drive or reading device they form a data repository system accessible by a computer.

Similarly another form of computer readable media is a flexible removable floppy disk which is inserted into a drive which houses an access head. The floppy disk typically includes a flexible magnetically encodable disk which is accessible by the drive head through a window in a sliding cover .

A Compact Disk CD is usually a plastic disk which is encoded using an optical and or magneto optical process and then is read using generally an optical process. Some CD s are read only CD ROM and are mass produced prior to distribution and use by reading types of drives. Other CD s are writable e.g. CD RW CD R either once or many time. Digital Versatile Disks DVD are advanced versions of CD s which often include double sided encoding of data and even multiple layer encoding of data. Like a floppy disk a CD or DVD is a removable media.

Another common type of removable media are several types of removable circuit based e.g. solid state memory devices such as Compact Flash CF Secure Data SD Sony s MemoryStick Universal Serial Bus USB FlashDrives and Thumbdrives and others. These devices are typically plastic housings which incorporate a digital memory chip such as a battery backed random access chip RAM or a Flash Read Only Memory FlashROM . Available to the external portion of the media is one or more electronic connectors for engaging a connector such as a CF drive slot or a USB slot. Devices such as a USB FlashDrive are accessed using a serial data methodology where other devices such as the CF are accessed using a parallel methodology. These devices often offer faster access times than disk based media as well as increased reliability and decreased susceptibility to mechanical shock and vibration. Often they provide less storage capability than comparably priced disk based media.

Yet another type of computer readable media device is a memory module often referred to as a SIMM or DIMM. Similar to the CF SD and FlashDrives these modules incorporate one or more memory devices such as Dynamic RAM DRAM mounted on a circuit board having one or more electronic connectors for engaging and interfacing to another circuit such as a Personal Computer motherboard. These types of memory modules are not usually encased in an outer housing as they are intended for installation by trained technicians and are generally protected by a larger outer housing such as a Personal Computer chassis.

Turning now to another embodiment option of the present invention is shown in which a computer readable signal is encoded with software data or both which implement logical processes according to the invention. is generalized to represent the functionality of wireless wired electro optical and optical signaling systems. For example the system shown in can be realized in a manner suitable for wireless transmission over Radio Frequencies RF as well as over optical signals such as InfraRed Data Arrangement IrDA . The system of may also be realized in another manner to serve as a data transmitter data receiver or data transceiver for a USB system such as a drive to read the aforementioned USB FlashDrive or to access the serially stored data on a disk such as a CD or hard drive platter.

In general a microprocessor or microcontroller reads writes or both data to from storage for data program or both . A data interface optionally including a digital to analog converter cooperates with an optional protocol stack to send receive or transceive data between the system front end and the microprocessor . The protocol stack is adapted to the signal type being sent received or transceived. For example in a Local Area Network LAN embodiment the protocol stack may implement Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP . In a computer to computer or computer to peripheral embodiment the protocol stack may implement all or portions of USB FireWire RS 232 Point to Point Protocol PPP etc.

The system s front end or analog front end is adapted to the signal type being modulated demodulate or transcoded. For example in an RF based system the analog front end comprises various local oscillators modulators demodulators etc. which implement signaling formats such as Frequency Modulation FM Amplitude Modulation AM Phase Modulation PM Pulse Code Modulation PCM etc. Such an RF based embodiment typically includes an antenna for transmitting receiving or transceiving electro magnetic signals via open air water earth or via RF wave guides and coaxial cable. Some common open air transmission standards are BlueTooth Global Services for Mobile Communications GSM Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Advanced Mobile Phone Service AMPS and Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi .

In another example embodiment the analog front end may be adapted to sending receiving or transceiving signals via an optical interface such as laser based optical interfaces e.g. Wavelength Division Multiplexed SONET etc. or Infra Red Data Arrangement IrDA interfaces . Similarly the analog front end may be adapted to sending receiving or transceiving signals via cable using a cable interface which also includes embodiments such as USB Ethernet LAN twisted pair coax Plain old Telephone Service POTS etc.

Signals transmitted received or transceived as well as data encoded on disks or in memory devices may be encoded to protect it from unauthorized decoding and use. Other types of encoding may be employed to allow for error detection and in some cases correction such as by addition of parity bits or Cyclic Redundancy Codes CRC . Still other types of encoding may be employed to allow directing or routing of data to the correct destination such as packet and frame based protocols.

Parallel data can be represented as the flow of data signals aligned in time such that parallel data unit byte word d word etc. is transmitted with each bit D Dbeing on a bus or signal carrier simultaneously where the width of the data unit is n 1. In some systems Dis used to represent the least significant bit LSB and in other systems it represents the most significant bit MSB . Data is serialized by sending one bit at a time such that each data unit is sent in serial fashion one after another typically according to a protocol.

As such the parallel data stored in computer memory is often accessed by a microprocessor or Parallel to Serial Converter via a parallel bus and exchanged e.g. transmitted received or transceived via a serial bus . Received serial data is converted back into parallel data before storing it in computer memory usually. The serial bus generalized in may be a wired bus such as USB or Firewire or a wireless communications medium such as an RF or optical channel as previously discussed.

In these manners various embodiments of the invention may be realized by encoding software data or both according to the logical processes of the invention into one or more computer readable mediums thereby yielding a product of manufacture and a system which when properly read received or decoded yields useful programming instructions data or both including but not limited to the computer readable media types described in the foregoing paragraphs.

Turning to a general arrangement of components networks and users of a virtual world is shown. A virtual world server is interconnected through a data network such as the Internet or an intranet or a telephone network such as a public switched telephone network PSTN or a digital telephone network e.g. digital cellular Integrated Services Digital Network Digital Subscriber Line etc. . Many virtual world server s are interconnected to a combination or data and telephone networks whereas the convergence of the two types of networks have rendered some networks difficult to clearly distinguish as exclusively data or telephone. For example Voice over Internet VoIP protocol has allowed telephone calls to be carried by traditionally data only networks. And Modulate Demodulate modem devices have long since allowed data communications over telephone lines. Further traditionally content oriented networks such as cable television networks have also been adapted to carry digitized telephone calls and data connections to the Internet.

Of particular popularity in recent years are various types of wireless networks from cellular telephone networks to shorter range networks such as WiFi and Blue Tooth networks some of which use towers and others of which use wireless access points to interconnect a wireless device to a wired network.

In the arrangement of users access the Virtual World server though the various networks using terminal devices such as a personal computer PC with a local area network LAN interface a wireless terminal such as a cellular telephone or WiFi equipped laptop PC or even a PC with a telephone or cable modem.

Within the Virtual World server there are a number of application programs running which utilize or game data Virtual World resources user account information and profile . Such application programs and extensions thereto are often provided or developed in programming languages such as C or Python.

The Virtual World server has integrated into it one or more microprocessors memory devices and sub systems and communications bandwidth or capabilities .

Most virtual world servers can maintain and operate more than one virtual worlds simultaneously . In each of the virtual world s scenarios or sub worlds user s can use a different or the same avatars to represent themselves.

In many scenarios the users are divided into two or more classes of user such as a presenter and attendees . Each class of user may have greater or fewer capabilities within the world such as a presenter being allowed to share a desktop presentation file with the attendees but the attendees not being able to share their own desktop applications with other attendees.

In such an arrangement the primary method of interaction between users and the applications of the Virtual World server is through a variety of messaging capabilities such as VoIP text messaging SMS instant messaging e.g. America Online s Instant Messenger or Lotus SameTime electronic mail telephone audio internet camera audio video application programming interfaces API shared desktop technologies and the like.

For example during a Virtual World conference or presentation the real presenter may communicate with the real attendees via their virtual presences e.g. avatars of the virtual scenario. Further the real presenter may also communicate with a scenario manager portion of the Virtual World server to accomplish such functions as reserving resources necessary to create and maintain the virtual scenario freezing the scenario and controlling attendance to the scenario. The real presenter may also communicate with portions of the Virtual World engine to accomplish other administrative functions as may be necessary.

Many virtual worlds provide a three dimensional visual simulation of each sub world or scenario accompanied by appropriate text and or audio in order to provide a believable but not necessarily realistic rendering of the scenario to the users. For example in fantasy scenarios avatars of users may be animals hypothetical creatures etc. and the landscape of the scenario may be another plant or a future civilization.

However in many business to business scenarios such as corporate meetings or training sessions the scenarios are more realistic in their appearance albeit still virtual.

Turning to an example depiction of such a realistic scenario is provided in which the avatar for the real meeting facilitator is shown along side a virtual presentation screen as if the facilitator were in a real meeting room with walls and a floor area where the avatars of the meeting attendees are shown.

To enhance the experience the virtual presentation screen may show a portion of the facilitator s actual terminal device s screen such as a portion of a Microsoft Windows desktop interface or may be filled with information provided to the Virtual World server from an application program such as a mobile phone or PDA based presentation program. Still further to enhance the virtual conference experience the virtual walls are decorated according to the presenter s or other administrator s preferences including coverings skins or lighting and or one or more company logos .

In such a scenario the presenter or administrator of the virtual conference schedules reserves or otherwise configures these environment choices including possibly restrictions as to which other users may be attendees. Such scheduling and reservation activities are usually performed in advance and may need to be revised as the number of virtual attendees becomes more and more certain closer to time of the virtual conference.

For the purposes of this disclosure the term scheduling of virtual world resources will be used to refer to such activities as requesting in advance configuring enabling disabling limiting enumerating revising or otherwise controlling virtual environment characteristics attendee lists attendee capabilities etc.

The present invention solves a problem not recognized by those in the art in which multiple virtual world platforms and systems have evolved and been deployed none of which being capable of interacting with each other. In many ways it could be said that today s virtual worlds are islands to themselves due to their technical limitations e.g. proprietary design natures and due in part to their previous market appeal e.g. only to their own client or user base .

Regions in a VU are independent of each other from an infrastructure perspective. For example in Second Life regions are often run on a single core of a 2 CPU 2 core Linux system so each computer can run four simulators . When the simulator software starts up it joins a pool of similarly configured systems waiting to be assigned a region to run. When a new region is created its configuration land layout water layout textures etcetera is stored in a database and then randomly assigned to one of the spare simulators in the pool.

In the near future it is expected that it will become more common to have different service providers for VU grid software. Recently Linden Lab open sourced its client software that they use for Second Life making this possibility much more likely. One problem with running VU grids with different service providers is that currently no connection exists to the central asset server or login servers. The asset server contains each avatar s inventory and all the objects scripts and textures used in world. This database may be strained with a large number of users such as 18 000 for Second Life .

The inventors have recognized a problem which is expected to arise in the near future when VU users desire to merge or split VUs for different service providers and sim in a box VUs. Merges and splits will be desired for a number of reasons. For example a corporate divestiture of a business unit or need to restructure VUs along organizational lines resulting in IT system division or a desire to split to decrease the total population of the VU such as if degrading performance or experiential clutter had been reported may drive a need for a VU split.

In the near future as companies that oversee virtual universes split and merge e.g. consolidate and undergo financial buy outs a need for accomplishing such splitting and merging becomes apparent. The inventors have recognized that it will become more common to have different service providers for VU grid software. Recently Linden Lab open sourced its client software that they use for Second Life making this possibility much more likely.

Recently Linden Labs demonstrated a sim in a box. It contains all the hardware and software needed to run a single stand alone region but with no connections to the current Asset or Login server connections. With this every user logging in would have to create a new account again for this stand alone VU and everyone would start with no inventory that is having to rebuild their avatar s inventory from scratch. One problem with running VU grids with different service providers is that currently no connection exists to the central asset server or login servers. The asset server contains each avatar s inventory and all the objects scripts and textures used in world. This database may be strained with a large number of users such as 18 000 for Second Life .

As shown in two generalized phases to merge disparate and independent VUs according to the present invention are as follows 

In this context the term disparate VU is used to describe virtual universes which are not associated together by shared software or hardware components and most commonly are executed or hosted on separate cores of a computing platform. Further the term stitching refers to a three dimensional 3 D geometrical merging of VU regions as would be accomplished by bringing together regions of land in a seamless fashion. There are several known products and tools to accomplish the graphical task of stitching 3 D geometries such as Panoweaver and RasterStitch. Through an application programming interface API to such a product the present invention may accomplish the task of stitching the graphic elements of two or more VUs together into a destination VU.

While the following steps and descriptions herein reference regions within a same VU grid it is possible to implement these steps across separate VU grids provided the VU engine is identical or there exists a translation service of all the objects.

The following paragraphs are suitable for implementation as software executed by computers e.g. servers clients or both circuitry coupled with electronic devices or a combination of software and circuitry.

While the examples provided herein will refer to Linden Labs SecondLife it is within the skill in the art to adapt the invention to realize it in conjunction with a wide variety of virtual world systems including but not limited to Sony s Everquest Terra ICT s Dreamville Dubit Limited s Dubit Voltweb Limited s TowerChat Lightmaker s Virtual Ibiza Bongartz Dr Kozan GbR s Moove Sulake Corporation Oy s Habbo Hotel Playdo s Playdo Siliconmania s whyrobbierockscom Voodoo Chat Adobe s Atmosphere Daimler Chrysler s MobileKids Blizzard s World of Warcraft America s Army Forterra Systems products Tate s agoraXchange Activeworlds Coca Cola s Coke Studios Integrated Virtual Networks Cybertown Walt Disney Internet Group s Toontown Disney Online s Virtual Magic Kingdom MadWolf Software s The Manor Muse Communications Muse Electronic Arts Sims Online Tomo Software s Sora City There Incorporated s There The Digital Space Commons Traveler Halsoft s VPchat Stratagem Corporation s VZones Numedeon s Whyville Worldscom and Three Rings Yohoho Puzzle Pirates .

These methods require a modification to VU grid software where a new migration tool will be created and operate according to the steps below. This migration tool may need to have connectivity and administrator access to the VU grid to be split and in particular have read write access to the VU s databases depending on details of the design of the VU to which the invention is being coupled. This tool will act as a bridge where migration transactions can be initiated and confirmed.

For reference in the following details the inventors talk about merging VU grid into VU grid . These methods may be performed when VU grid is functioning or when it is offline. If the grid migration is performed while a region is on line there may be some period of time when an avatar from VU grid will have its region and land unavailable or partially available while it is placed into VU grid . The inventors also describe the method in a preferred embodiment which would be able to merge VUs without suspending service.

Method 1 Merge regions by stitching into selected destination region edges . This method describes how to technically combine regions land buildings and environment objects . This method is preferably implemented from the migration tool.

Referring now to an administrator using an control interface or an automated program selects 91 region edges from VU grid and VU grid that will be stitched. That is the coordinate lines at which an avatar traveling from for example VU grid region will travel into former VU grid region . This is preferably accomplished via a drag and drop graphical representation of the regions as downloaded and rendered in map form by the migration tool although other implementations are likewise possible. In one embodiment the owner of a selected region in grid optionally specifies general characteristics of where he would prefer to have land stitched and the stitching software can attempt to find a best match. This may change the final layout characteristics of the grid world e.g. the original grid may be scrambled somewhat when it is stitched but this may be okay in some embodiments.

Optionally the stitching system can look for a best match for stitching for the entire grid and then perform an automated stitching. For example the stitching software may attempt to minimize the landscape interpolation required in cases of mismatch of high elevation and low elevation regions. It may attempt to minimize the interpolation required in terms of color interpolation. Thus region may be translated back and forth until a minimum required overall interpolation is reached.

Other factors may be considered such as minimizing the conceptual interpolation required for stitching city regions and country regions which may be tagged as such regions before attempted merger. Available technology for 3 D interpolation of surfaces represented by 3 D meshes may be incorporated and used for this task.

Next the system according to the invention sends instructions to VU grid to lock the selected region to be merged so that no new avatars may enter and no modification may be made. The locking preferably teleports rather than disconnects any avatars who are in the region at the time of the lock.

Subsequently the system according to the invention sends instruction to VU grid to retrieve all of the selected region s data and resources. The data retrieved in the previous step is stored into a temporary table .

The system according to the invention sends a delete query to VU grid to delete the data selected in the previous step and sends an insert query to VU grid using the VU grid data from the temporary table .

Finally the system according to the invention sends an update query to VU grid to update the coordinates to stitch the regions according to the coordinates specified by the administrator or automated program .

The foregoing steps are then repeated until all regions have been merged keeping in mind that it is also possible to merge two VUs at a single intersecting line in which case this method is invoked a single time.

Method 2 Merge accounts avatars and their inventories. Another method according to the invention which may be used independently or in combination with Method 1 merges user accounts their associated avatars and their inventories items into a disparate VU grid. Referring now to another method and process according to the present invention includes steps as follows.

Initially a system according to the invention sends instructions to VU grid to lock selected user account s so that no avatar or inventory modifications may be made. The locking preferably includes or is preceded by notification to the users of the selected accounts.

Next a system according to the invention sends a select query to VU grid to retrieve all of the account avatar and inventory data for the selected account. This preferably includes any related data such as history and scripts. The data retrieved in the previous step is stored into a temporary table .

Subsequently a system according to the invention compares universe user account identifications UUID for the selected account to the user account UUIDs for the destination VU grid . For each duplicate UUID found the system changes the account UUID based on any desired logic until all account UUIDs are unique such as by appending a numeric sequence at the end of an account from VU grid or until it becomes unique prompting the user for a new UUID notifying the user of the UUID change assigning a temporary user UUID etc. Some of these options may involve communication to the user of the new or temporary account ID such as via an automated message sent to their VU client window email address on record or any other contact means.

After UUID uniqueness issues have been resolved a system according to the invention generates new UUIDs for all former VU grid objects avatars and all inventory items using VU grid s UUID generation routine.

Now a system according to the invention sends an insert query to VU grid using the VU grid data from the temporary table. Optionally a system according to the invention sends instructions to VU grid to invoke any generation routines normally invoked upon user or inventory creation such as updating notice boards web site statistics etc. Then finally an instruction is sent to VU grid to log off the moved user account s who are currently logged in to VU grid .

Optionally an avatar transfer service may be invoked to automatically log the moved users on to the merged VU grid . And a delete query is sent to VU grid to delete the user data and all descendent objects such as avatars inventory history scripts etc. including any necessary instructions to VU grid to invoke any routines normally invoked upon account deletion. In some embodiments this step may also include inserting into a temporary table on VU grid the account IDs with their passwords that have been deleted and then providing instructions regarding the move to any user attempting to re login to VU grid using one of these ID password combinations. This table may be purged at a desired time.

If more accounts are to be moved into the destination VUG then steps are repeated for each account to be moved into the destination VU grid.

Other Methods and Variations. The methods described above may be ordered differently and steps may not be committed in the databases until other or all steps have been completed. Such variations will be recognized by those skilled in the art as failing within the scope and framework of the present invention.

As mentioned in the foregoing paragraphs the two methods according to the invention may be realized or utilized independently or in combination with each other. For example in the following scenarios the first method would be useful 

 1 VU grid owner would like to pay VU grid owner for use of their regions and layout to be integrated into VU grid but VU grid owner is unwilling to sell VU grid s user accounts or VU grid owner is unwilling to pay money for VU grid s user accounts. Note that in this case the steps to delete the original regions would be skipped.

 2 VU grid owner would like to merge VU grid s regions into a new VU grid but of course the accounts cannot be merged over because in this case the VU grid is to remain operational. Note that in this case the steps to delete the original regions would be skipped.

 1 The reason for a merger is purely to increase population density and so merging regions would not be desired. The regions from one VU grid are to be abandoned.

 2 VU grid needs to send its population to VU grid to make room for new users who have no history with the VU grid provider.

While certain examples and details of a preferred embodiment have been disclosed it will be recognized by those skilled in the art that variations in implementation such as use of different programming methodologies computing platforms and processing technologies may be adopted without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Therefore the scope of the invention should be determined by the following claims.

