---

title: Visualizing communications within a social setting
abstract: A method is provided for visualizing communications in a social setting. A graphical virtual social venue is provided. Users of one or more social networks are invited to enter the venue and to participate in and share a social experience. Users are graphically represented within the virtual social venue and are able to communicate with each other. When users communicate with each other, the communications are tracked and visually represented in the virtual social venue with visual overlays. The visual overlays signify communicatively active parts of the social venue while keeping private the contents of the communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08667402&OS=08667402&RS=08667402
owner: Javelin XIP, LLC
number: 08667402
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110107
---
This application claims the benefit of the following U.S. Provisional Applications which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all intents and purposes 

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 969 487 filed Dec. 15 2010 entitled INCORPORATING MEDIA CONTENT INTO A 3D SOCIAL PLATFORM assigned to a common assignee the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all intents and purposes 

The present invention relates to a platform for providing social networking services within a virtual venue to allow for interaction between users with third party media content and more specifically to a method for instantiating viewable media into a three dimensional platform.

People utilize computers to access or generate information to produce content to communicate with others to experience media music television movies or other video and to play games. However multiple users do not share most computer experiences because they are isolated from each other in terms of geography chronology or with respect to the content that they access. Whatever activity a computer user experiences is typically either asynchronous to other users such as email viewing and posting within a social network service etc. or synchronous within a closed environment such as online gaming . Alternatively the activity is entirely personal such as viewing a movie watching a sporting event via a web feed or laughing at the latest YOUTUBE post.

The last few years have witnessed the rise of online social networks to connect people with friends acquaintances and enable them to share interests pictures videos emails and the like. A typical online social network provides a representation of each user often a profile his her social links and a variety of services including means for users to interact over the internet such as e mail and instant messaging. Social networking sites allow users to share ideas activities events and interests within their individual networks.

However such social networking sites are typically asynchronous. That is users access network services on their schedule and review activities events and interests that have been previously posted by other users within their network. And if they add content or dialogue to their network other users will see such posting at a later time when they access the network.

By contrast online gaming services connect people in a synchronous fashion. That is gamers go online and share a gaming experience with each other at the same time. However the form of the shared content is predefined the game that the users are playing. The online games are closed systems where the content that is experienced by the users is predefined within the gaming environment. Moreover the persons with whom the content is shared is also closed and restricted to members involved in the game.

A method is provided for visualizing communications in a social setting. A graphical virtual social venue is provided. Users of one or more social networks are invited to enter the venue and to participate in and share a social experience. Users are graphically represented within the virtual social venue and are able to communicate with each other. When users communicate with each other the communications are tracked and visually represented in the virtual social venue with visual overlays. The visual overlays signify communicatively active parts of the social venue while keeping private the contents of the communication.

In one embodiment the visual overlays comprise color coded streams or ribbons of light. For example a linear stream or ribbon of blue light is used to represent intra venue communications. A linear stream or ribbon of blue light connects the avatars of two users within the virtual social venue that are communicating with each other. A vertical stream or ribbon of red light is used to represent trans venue communications. When a user communicates with someone outside the venue a vertical stream or ribbon of red light dropping down from outside the venue onto the user is used to represent the communication.

In another embodiment the communications tracked in the virtual social venue are communications made between users through their social networks. For example the communications may comprise posts or chats between users of a social network. Alternatively the communications may comprise live voice communications to or from users within the social venue.

In another embodiment a virtual three dimensional representation is provided of the virtual social venue in the form of a stadium coliseum arena stage theater or other large physical structure providing a seating or standing area for seating or standing a plurality of people in proximity to each other to view and or listen to streaming media content. Also three dimensional avatars are provided to each user who enters the virtual social venue to graphically represent the user within the venue.

Users can also migrate their avatars over to communicatively active parts of the social venue. In one embodiment as users migrate over to what the visual overlays show to be a communicatively active part of the social venue to the extent that the communications comprise live voice communications they gradually become audible to the migrating users as they come into proximity with the communicating users. In another embodiment text communications from a text sending user are converted to audio and made audible to users proximate the text sending user.

The present invention is directed at taking all of the experiences that are possible for a user on his her computer whether browsing content enjoying video gaming or obtaining information and placing such experiences on a platform that integrates the experiences within the context of a social network.

The virtual social venue enables users to express emotional and or social responses to the media content they are experiencing as well as to the activities going on in their virtual environment. The virtual social venue also enables users to interact with the other avatars and participants. Examples of emotional responses and social interactions include but are not limited to standing waving booing cheering and clapping.

Many different types of avatars are contemplated. Some of the avatars are live avatars controlled by users admitted to and participating in the virtual social venue . Other avatars are ghost avatars avatars that were previously controlled by users but that are now programmed to replay the emotional reactions and animations with which the users had previously caused them to act out. Yet other avatars are artificial intelligence controlled avatars that are programmed to respond in a manner consistent with the live avatars and ghost avatars in proximity to them. For example if a live avatar expresses a positive emotion such as clapping nearby AI avatars may express positive reactions such as cheering or whistling. Likewise if a live avatar expresses a negative emotion such as booing nearby AI avatars may express other negative reactions that are consistent with the live avatar s booing. In this way crowd dynamics are simulated within the virtual social forum. In another embodiment participants may enter and control various AI avatars with which they come into contact.

Based upon his or her seating or standing location within the three dimensional virtual social venue each user has a unique position and orientation and corresponding perspective and field of view within the virtual three dimensional space. When media content is instantiated onto a viewing surface or within the three dimensional space it is scaled rotated to a yaw and pitch and depth transformed consistent with the relative differences between the user s position and orientation and the viewing surface s position and orientation. This three dimensional transformation is unique to each user so it is preferably managed by each user s own client side hardware resources.

Each participant s view can be adjusted to zoom in and out of the video screen so that each participant can watch a full screen version of the video feed with other participants if desired. depicts zooming into a nearly full screen version of the video screen . Further zooming would transform the video screen into a non rotated fully orthogonal full screen view of the media content. Also once the participant zooms into the screen additional content may be displayed such as content . Each participant can also zoom back out from a full screen view enabling the participant to select the relative amount of attention to distribute between the media content and the social environment.

Each participant can also enlarge their default field of view by zooming out far enough to see their own avatar and the surrounding environment. By zooming out this way the participant can gain a bird s eye view of the virtual social venue and identify and migrate to areas that appear to be more lively and active than others.

To enhance the social experience audio content streamed into the virtual social venue is mixed with ambient audio expressions such as shouting booing clapping or real voice expressions from the participants. The audio content streamed into the virtual world may also be mixed with attenuated sounds from other media content being instantiated on nearby viewing surfaces. The audio is also preferably streamed to each participant in a 3 D surround sound format with ambient sounds from surrounding sources being attenuated and delayed as a function of the distance between the user s avatar and the source of the sound. In one embodiment zooming into a full screen version of the video screen has the concomitant effect of attenuating ambient sounds until the ambient sounds are turned off and making the media content relatively louder. Zooming out has the opposite effect increasing the relative loudness of the ambient sounds. In other embodiments the ambient sounds one hears are limited to certain channels or groups of friends.

Many different forms of media content may be instantiated into the virtual social venue . In one embodiment a fully interactive web page is instantiated on a viewing surface within the virtual social venue. Interactivity with the webpage however is preferably limited to a host who instantiates the web page or to a virtual disc jockey who is given control over the media content. In other embodiments described below a video stream or widget is instantiated onto the viewing surface.

Referring to a screen shot is provided depicting a multi sided jumbotron monitor on which the video content is instantiated. Once the video content is instantiated into the virtual social venue the media that is being played is not just viewed by the user that caused the instantiation. Rather every participant that is within the virtual social venue whether from the user s social network or otherwise within the venue has the instantiated video content presented to them within the context of the venue provided that the viewing screen is within that participant s field of view. Thus the experience of observing the video content is enjoyed by all members of the venue.

In addition the selection of the monitor onto which to instantiate a given media stream is customizable. That is the video content could have been displayed on the monitor or even one of the remote monitors . The choice of location for displaying externally instantiated video content is definable by either the user who selected the content or by individual users within the virtual social venue .

Additionally each user within the venue may select one or more viewing spaces for the instantiated video content. For example a first user may wish to view the video content on the jumbotron . A second user may wish to view the content on the monitor . Mechanisms are provided to allow users to move content between display areas as well as to queue instantiated content for later viewing. Additionally different users in a venue may be given different rolls owner administrator moderator spectators and guests. Each of these user types have different privileges and controls available to them for instantiating or moving content from external sources.

In another embodiment the browser plugin icon may be used by an owner administrator or moderator to queue up content for display in a later venue. Thus a user can surf the web in his her browser and when they find desired content can use the browser plugin to add media content to a queue for later play. When the venue experience begins the content can then be placed into displays as desired.

In one embodiment the content within the billboards may contain advertisements that are related to the content that is being viewed within the venue . For example if the content that is being experienced by the social group within the venue is a video game billboards may advertise similar video games or pre orders for games not yet released. If the video content being experienced within the venue is a movie billboards may display trailers to movies that are similar to that being viewed or movies by the same director or having the same primary actors actresses. The uses available for the billboards are not restricted and may relate directly or indirectly to the content being experienced within the venue .

In an additional embodiment users that are selected or otherwise able to view the video feed can choose to move the video feed to any display or the display of their choice for experiencing the content. In this manner a user can select one or more video feeds for populating displays within the social venue for the enjoyment of all or subgroups of users.

In one embodiment any widget that operable for use within an internet browser can be instantiated into one or more displays within the 3D social venue environment of the present invention. illustrates a screen shot of a portion of the virtual social venue . Within the portion is a display onto which the widget has been instantiated. For each user viewing the instantiated widget the display of the widget is spatially transformed to match the relative positions and orientations of the viewing surface and user s avatar.

In one embodiment a user or venue moderator can select one or more of the displays within the venue for display of any widget they desire. In addition the user can selectively instantiate one or more widgets onto displays that are public or private. A public display is one that is visible to any user in the virtual social venue whose avatar has an unobstructed view of the viewing surface. A private display is one whose contents are individualized and exclusively visible to a single user group or subset of users in the virtual social venue. Multiple private widgets can be instantiated on a single private display with each private widget being exclusively visible to different users groups or subsets of users within the virtual social venue.

More specifically a user can obtain a selection tool such as a laser or flashlight or crosshairs or any of a plurality of identifiers and can then select a portion of the social venue for identifying to other users a location that they are to examine. The social media platform then superimposes a linear stream of light in the virtual social venue from the user s avatar to the object the user selects. The virtual social venue displays both the light stream and the surface area within the virtual social venue illuminated by the light stream .

This enables users to direct the attention of other users within the virtual social venue to a particular portion of the virtual social venue. For example if a group of users are looking for the avatar of a friend that is among the users within the social venue and one of the users knows where the avatar is sitting s he can point to them using a selection tool and all of the users in the group can see where the user is pointing.

As another example a social venue may be set up for viewing a painting or photograph or other piece of art to be examined by a group of users. The instructor may zoom in to the painting to a very granular or pixel level and can use a selection tool to direct the users to pay attention to a particular area that is being displayed. In one embodiment the instructor controls the zooming experience of the other viewers. In another embodiment each user individually controls the degree of zooming that is displayed to that user.

In another embodiment users are provided with the ability to not only use a selection tool to call attention to a particular part of the social venue but also select the users for example just the users friends to whom the selection tool is visible. In this manner only selected users can see the selection tool but other users cannot.

In another embodiment each user is represented as a three dimensional avatar having arms hands and a pointing finger and the selection tool is the pointing finger of a user s avatar. Of course many different types and uses of pointing devices are envisioned. What is relevant is that a user can choose a selection tool and then use that tool to call attention of other users within the social venue to a particular portion of the social venue.

To allow users within the social venue to obtain a visual perspective of such communication the present invention preferably using the application programming interfaces of any linked extrinsic social networks tracks the communications made by all users within the social venue and provides visual overlays of the communications. In one embodiment the communications comprise public posts or chat messages made by users in and through their extrinsic social network. In another embodiment the communications comprise live voice communications between users in the social venue. The social media platform then displays visual overlays within the social venue to represent those communications to or from users in the social venue.

In one embodiment the visual overlays are non textual and comprise streams or ribbons of light. For example if two users within the social venue are chatting with each other streams of blue light will flow between the two users depending on where they are sitting in the social venue representing texts that are sent or received between the users. In addition if a user receives a communication from someone in their social network that is outside the social venue a red stream will drop down from outside the venue onto the user for which the communication is intended. In this manner the visual overlays can be used to identify relatively more communicatively active parts of the social venue while keeping private the contents of the communication. Moreover different types of visual overlays are color coded according to the type of digital communication occurring in the social venue.

In another embodiment the digital communication is delayed briefly so that the recipient does not actually receive the communication until after the stream representing the communication arrives. By observing streams of communications within the social venue a user can readily see which users are actively communicating either by receiving messages or sending them. Then users can migrate their avatars over to communicatively active parts of the social venue and participate in the action. Applicants envision any form of communication that can be monitored by the platform providing the virtual social venue may be visually represented within the social venue in a graphical way.

In an alternative embodiment text communications between users are captured and converted into audio and streamed into the virtual social venue so that they are audible to users proximate to a text sending user. This way as users migrate over to a communicatively active part of the virtual social forum they also audibly experience the communicative activity.

One embodiment of the present invention is also capable of extracting profile images of users who enter the virtual social venue from the social network s from which they are invited and mapping the profile images onto the avatars of the corresponding users. illustrate screen shots depicting portions of a virtual social venue in which profile images have been mapped onto users avatars. The social media platform imports a graphical representation for each user from his or her social network e.g. FACEBOOK and overlays the graphical representation onto the user s associated avatar. In this manner a user s virtual avatar is made personal to the user. The avatars are not simply objects which represent each user. Rather each avatar is made personal to each user by overlaying on the avatar a user s own photograph or other graphical representation. In this manner users within the social venue may be recognized both by friends in their social network as well as by others within the social venue.

In a typical embodiment when a user joins the social venue their graphical representation is imported from their social network and overlaid onto an avatar that represents the user. While it will often be the case that a user s profile image will comprise a facial picture of the user the profile image may be any graphical representation selected by the user. illustrates a cartoon that one user selected as his profile image. It will be appreciated that a user s choice of graphical representation may be a picture of the user or any arbitrary image that they would like to use to represent themselves within their social network. For instance a user may choose to instantiate a thumbnail sketch or icon of a website or other virtual social venue on their avatar.

The face of the avatar is just one of many surfaces that may be overlaid with extrinsically sourced content. Users may also purchase apparel or body art to overlay other avatar surfaces. Also the avatars themselves may be customized. A cola vendor could purchase 1000 seats in a football venue and choose cola cans or bottles or even animated cola commercials as their avatars. The cola avatars would emote and be influenced by the crowd.

In other embodiments the invention enables users to designate video feeds to be mapped onto their corresponding avatars. In one embodiment the video feed comprises streams of images captured from the users web cameras. In another embodiment the video feeds comprise streaming media content being shared in another virtual social venue. Other users can zoom into the mapped video feed and be transported to the other virtual social venue. In yet another embodiment the video feeds comprise a video feed designated by a URL. In yet another embodiment the video feeds comprise one or more advertisements. In yet another embodiment the video feeds comprise a collage of images extracted from the users one or more social networks.

When a client logs into the social media platform the client communicates through port server to message queuing server . The message queuing server talks to the security access server to authenticate the login. Venue management is handled by logic servers through message queuing servers and local logic servers installed on each client device. Extrinsic two dimensional media content such as video streams are fed directly from the third party s URL e.g. Youtube to clients. The remote logic server directs clients in the virtual social venue to the URL. The clients with their local logic servers manage the extrinsic two dimensional media content themselves including transforming the media to fit the structural environment provided by the virtual social venue.

The client devices include a video display for presenting the instantiated media within the context of the virtual social venue to the user. The media may include video movies television web cams games audio still images web browser content web sites web applications widgets computer data or applications or any other content that may be accessed for display. User control of the client devices is achieved using input devices such as a keyboard mouse or any other type of device.

The shared two dimensional media content is presented on one or more viewing surfaces within the virtual three dimensional space . illustrates a virtual theater screen in a moderately sized theater. and by comparison illustrate a plurality of virtual billboards and jumbotron screens in a large stadium. The shared two dimensional media content may comprise a web page a video stream a widget or other externally sourced two dimensional media content .

When the shared two dimensional media content comprises something that is interactive such as a webpage with links and text fields the social media platform enables a host user or a user designated as a virtual disc jockey to interact with the shared media content. Those interactions are displayed on the viewing surface along with the shared media content to both the host user or virtual disc jockey and the other users admitted to the virtual social venue . When the shared two dimensional media content consists of web page the social media platform is in effect instantiating a skinless web browser onto the viewing surface and scaling it rotating it skewing it and otherwise three dimensionally transforming it in a manner consistent with each admitted user s unique position and orientation within the virtual three dimensional space .

The virtual social venue is populated with users invited and admitted from one or more extrinsic social networks . Users admitted to the social venue are either assigned a unique or exclusive position e.g. a seat etc. or a standing location as shown in within the social venue or they are permitted to navigate and migrate through the social venue and select an unoccupied position from which to share the media experience. In either case each user is provided with a unique position and orientation within the virtual three dimensional space to experience the shared two dimensional media content.

Each position and orientation within the virtual three dimensional space has a different field of view . Accordingly the social media platform displays the shared two dimensional media content to each user with a yaw and pitch consistent with the differences between the position and orientation provided to the user and the position and orientation of the virtual screen window or other viewing surface. To display the shared two dimensional media content within this three dimensional context the social media platform three dimensionally transforms the shared two dimensional media content often consisting of streaming video in real time to each user in a manner consistent with each user s unique relative position and orientation.

In another embodiment voice communications or other audio expressions of participating users are imported from users microphones or web cams and reproduced in the virtual three dimensional space for other participants to hear. Preferably the reproduction of sounds is done after filtering the audio expressions to cancel noises sourced from the virtual social venue including the shared media content. Also the audio expressions of surrounding participating users are reproduced for each user in a surround sound scheme correlated and consistent with the relative spatial arrangement of the participating user with surrounding participating users. When a user s avatar turns around within the virtual social venue the surround sound is rotated to that user in a manner correlated and consistent with the relative rotation of the participating user s avatar within the virtual social venue. Also consistent with the three dimensional environment the audio expressions received by any given recipient is attenuated and delayed as a function of the virtual distance between the recipient s avatar and the producer s avatar.

In yet another embodiment detected motion gestures such as clapping and arm waving are imported from participating users motion detecting apparatuses e.g. MICROSOFT S KINECT device or another third party gross motion gesture and or emotion detecting device and imitated through animations of their avatars. In this embodiment each user who enters the virtual social venue is provided with a three dimensional animated avatar that can render any of a plurality of emotional expressions with corresponding virtual physical gestures e.g. jumping arm waving cheering booing clapping .

The social media platform also populates a guest toolbar with thumbnails of the profile pictures of users who accept the invitation and are admitted into the virtual social venue . The social media platform also populates a larger box with the thumbnail image of the host user or virtual disc jockey that is the user who is controlling which media content to display and share on the viewing surface . The social media platform also provides an emot toolbar comprising selectable text or icons with which users can indicate an emotional response such as booing clapping or laughing to the shared media content.

Once a participant is granted access to the social media platform the participant s social graph having contacts information of the participant is automatically ported into the platform so that the viral features of the originating online social media network can be integrated with the social media platform operation . At operation the participant is prompted to invite one or more contacts from the participant s social graph to join in the combined social media platform. If any contacts accept the invitation they become additional participants operation and the process repeats. Social media events associated with the participants who joined in the MMOG can also be streamed into the social venue from their respective originating online social networks operation . These social media event streams may be displayed in real time while the participants are interacting with the combined social media platform operation . In addition the type and quantity of social media event streams received by an individual participant are user configurable. The social media event streams may also be turned off at any time by each participant. Additionally the social media events may be displayed on any display area within the combined social media platform. For example the social media events may be displayed on a display screen or monitor wall billboard blimp rocket airplane or fireworks display within the combined social media platform to name a few. This completes process .

As a user experiences content within their social venue they can choose to react to the content in many ways. They can clap cheer stand up yell boo rate the video etc. The social media platform records emotive activity of users over time during presentation of content played within a social venue and stores their emotive activity in an emot database . The emotive activity correlates in time with the video content that is presented within the social venue. Since the emotive activity is recorded in sync with the content that is experienced it is possible to reconstruct emotive activity of a user.

With this in mind ghost avatars may exist within social venues . More specifically if content has been presented in a social venue and users have had emotive activity during presentation of the content then the emotive activity is stored in the emot database . If at a later time the content is presented to other users then ghost avatars from the previous viewing can appear within the social venue and their emotive activity can be presented alongside activity expressed by live users. Thus the experience of viewing content can be cumulatively enhanced as more and more users view the content and their emotive activity is recorded. For example a user might be viewing content with only a few other live users. However the social venue may have been previously viewed by thousands of others. In one embodiment the cumulative emotive activity of all users that have viewed the content may be replayed along with the content thus enhancing the overall viewing experience of the live users.

The social media platform leverages the social relational data and communications facilities of extrinsic social networks to populate the virtual social venue and in effect to bring it to life. The social media platform includes one or more data interfaces to extrinsic social networks that use application programming interfaces associated with those social networks to authenticate users and pass and retrieve information such as text communications and friend lists to and from those social networks. Communications between admitted users such as user texts or chats is preferably handled by the one or more extrinsic social networks and then represented in the virtual social venue in some form such as text bubbles or streams of light .

The social media platform populates the virtual social venue with users invited and admitted from one or more social networks . The social media platform includes a user list to track all of the users admitted to the social venue. The social media platform also continually tracks user spatial data such as the position and orientation of each user s avatar as various users navigate and migrate about the venue social venue.

The social media platform also leverages media content sourced from extrinsic media providers. The social media platform includes a browser plug in interface enabling an interactive browser web page to be instantiated with its interactive features maintained onto a viewing surface within the three dimensional environment provided by the virtual social venue. The social media platform also includes a streaming media interface enabling streaming media content from a third party streaming media provider to be instantiated within the three dimensional environment. The social media platform also includes a widget interface enabling a widget to execute within the three dimensional environment.

The social media platform also includes a client user interface for presenting the virtual social venue to a client and receiving and responding to user navigation and control . User navigation and controls include commands related to the navigation of a user s avatar selection of friends to invite to the virtual social venue and emotional responses to the third party media content.

Functional block provides the user with a representation position and orientation within the virtual three dimensional space. The representation of the user is typically in the form of an avatar. The avatar s position e.g. a seat or standing location may be automatically determined selected and assigned by the host or the user may be given the ability and privilege to navigate his her avatar to a user selected position within the virtual three dimensional space. The user is also provided with the ability to rotate the avatar or the avatar s head to a selected orientation within the virtual three dimensional space. The user is provided with a field of view consistent with the selected position and orientation of the user s avatar or other representation within the virtual three dimensional space.

Function block drives the externally sourced two dimensional content directly from the third party provider to each user. The two dimensional content is spatially transformed preferably using rendering software installed on each user s machine to fit the context of the virtual three dimensional space. This includes transforming the two dimensional content to a yaw and pitch consistent with the relative orientations and positions of each user and viewing surface. If any portion of the virtual screen window or other viewing surface is within a user s field of view that portion of the instantiated two dimensional media content will be displayed to that user.

Function block maintains any ability to interact with the instantiated content within the three dimensional environment. For example if a web page with text fields and links is instantiated on the virtual screen window or other viewing surface then the user is able to interact with the instantiated web page from within the virtual three dimensional space. This includes enabling the user to type into the text field and to select any link on the web page from within the virtual three dimensional space.

Functional block provides the ability to invite users from the social network to participate in the virtual social venue. This ability may be limited to a single host user or extended to multiple hosts or even to all users until the social venue reaches its admittance capacity. Functional block provides three dimensional animated avatars to admitted users and populates the seating or standing area with the avatars.

Functional block provides one or more screens billboards windows or other viewing surfaces in the three dimensional space on which to instantiate the extrinsically sourced two dimensional media. Functional block bequeaths a user with disc jockey privileges over typically just one of the screens billboards windows or viewing surfaces. A user with disc jockey privileges controls and selects the extrinsically sourced two dimensional media content to share with the audience on the viewing surface the disc jockey controls. The disc jockey can also interact with the instantiated media content from within the virtual three dimensional space. Typically other viewing surfaces will be occupied by advertisements related either to the content to be shown or to one or more users consumer interests.

Functional block spatially transforms the extrinsically sourced media to fit the perspective of each user s avatar. As noted before each avatar has a unique position and corresponding field of view from within the virtual social venue. Functional block displays the extrinsically sourced media while simultaneously displaying the avatars of neighboring participating users to each of the participating users. In other words the virtual social venue and any instantiated media content is displayed to each avatar from that avatar s unique perspective and field of view. This includes transforming the instantiated media content to a yaw and pitch consistent with the relative orientations and positions of each user s avatar to the viewing surface.

Functional block enables users to navigate about the three dimensional space and to zoom the viewing surface into full view while adjusting the spatial display and three dimensional transformations accordingly. Simply by turning the scroll wheel of a mouse a user can zoom in from the default perspective that his her avatar would have in the virtual social venue to a view in which the instantiated media content is full screen and orthogonal no longer three dimensionally transformed . By turning the scroll wheel of the mouse in the opposite direction the user can zoom back out all the way from a full screen view back to the default perspective. In a preferred embodiment the user can continue to zoom out from the default position giving the user a view of not only the objects in front of the user s avatar but also the user s avatar itself and the surrounding context. These tools enhance the user s control over and potential appreciation of the social experience in sharing the instantiated media content.

It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various embodiments are implemented on computer hardware software firmware and combinations thereof. The teachings of this description can be adapted to a variety of computer architectures. The various functions of the illustrated embodiments are implemented through programs of instructions stored in memory and configured to execute on various computer processors.

Having thus described exemplary embodiments of the present invention it should be noted that the foregoing disclosure and associated drawings are exemplary only and that various other alternatives adaptations and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments illustrated herein but is limited only by the following claims.

