---

title: Flexible vehicle display
abstract: A method and system for displaying graphical content on a vehicle display includes a client module and a plurality of control modules. The client module is in communication with the vehicle display and the plurality of control modules. Each of the plurality of control modules include software for generating a graphical text data intended to be shown on the vehicle display. The graphical text data is formatted with a predetermined layout determined by the corresponding one of the plurality of control modules. The client module includes a control logic for showing the graphical generated by the at least one of the plurality of control modules on the vehicle display. The graphical text data shown on the vehicle display is formatted with the predetermined layout determined by the corresponding one of the plurality of control modules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08694177&OS=08694177&RS=08694177
owner: GM Global Technology Operations LLC
number: 08694177
owner_city: Detroit
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110214
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 313 541 filed on Mar. 12 2010. The disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a system and method of communicating data to a display monitor and more particularly to a system and method of communicating data from several control modules to the display module.

The statements in this section merely provide background information related to the present disclosure and may or may not constitute prior art.

Display monitors are commonly used in passenger vehicles and can be used in a variety of ways such as for example a computer display a navigation display or as a television. Display monitors can also be used to show data generated from a remote device that is in communication with the local vehicle network. For example a handheld device such as a mobile telephone can share data with the local vehicle network through a Bluetooth connection.

The display monitor is able to display information through the use of predefined templates that are stored in the memory of a control module associated with the display monitor. Each template has a similar format and typically uses the same character font layout and style. Therefore the display monitor is usually only able to display information that is in the format defined by the templates.

While display monitors achieve their intended purpose there is a need for a new and improved display monitor which exhibits improved performance from the standpoint of supporting application specific interfaces.

The present invention provides a method and system for displaying graphical content on a vehicle display. The system includes a client module and a plurality of control modules. The vehicle display is connected to the vehicle. Each of the plurality of control modules include software for generating a graphical text data intended to be shown on the vehicle display. The graphical text data is formatted with a predetermined layout determined by the corresponding one of the plurality of control modules. The graphical text data includes a set of data signals that define at least one of a text layout character font size and color that is displayed on the vehicle display. The client module is connected to the vehicle. The client module is in communication with the vehicle display and the plurality of control modules. The client module includes a first control logic for monitoring the plurality of control modules for the set of data signals. The client module further includes a second control logic for receiving the set of data signals. The client module further includes a third control logic for showing the graphical text data generated by the at least one of the plurality of control modules on the vehicle display. The graphical text data shown on the vehicle display is formatted with the predetermined layout determined by the corresponding one of the plurality of control modules.

In still another embodiment of the present invention the set of data signals are in scripting language format markup language format and style sheet language format.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the client module includes a rendering engine and a combined layered application programming interface and scripting engine API and scripting engine . The rendering engine receives the data signals in markup language format and style sheet language format. The API and scripting engine interacts with the data signals in scripting language format.

In still another embodiment of the present invention the data signals in scripting language format are in JAVASCRIPT the data signals markup language format are in hypertext markup language HTML and the data signals in the style sheet language format as in cascading style sheet CSS format.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the client module executes markup language and scripting language based code.

In still another embodiment of the present invention the client module includes a memory. The memory stores localized markup language files.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the vehicle display includes selectable controls that receive user input. The vehicle display generates user input data signals that are indicative of user input. The user input data signals are communicated to the client module.

In still another embodiment of the present invention the client module includes a fourth control logic for monitoring the vehicle display for the user input data signals.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the client module includes a fifth control logic for interacting with the user input data signals. The client module communicates control messages and data requests indicative of the user input data signals to at least one of the plurality of control modules.

In still another embodiment of the present invention one of the plurality of control modules is a vehicle control module and another one of the plurality of control modules is a remote electronic device.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the vehicle control module is one of a telematics module an engine control module and a transmission control module. The remote electronic device is one of a smartphone a laptop computer and a personal digital assistant PDA .

In still another embodiment of the present invention the client module and at least one of the plurality of control modules are in communication with a vehicle network. The vehicle network sends data signals indicating diagnostic information generated by a vehicle system.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention a Media Oriented Systems Transport MOST network connection is used between the client module and at least one of the plurality of control modules and the vehicle network.

In still another embodiment of the present invention the client module is in communication with an off board server. The off board server provides an Internet connection and wherein the off board server generates a second set of graphical text data.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. It should be understood that the description and specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The following description is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the present disclosure application or uses.

With reference to an exemplary communication data system is illustrated as a block diagram and includes a display monitor a client module a vehicle module and a vehicle network . In the embodiment as shown the data communication system is used in a vehicle electronics system however those skilled in the art will appreciate that the communication data system may be used in other applications as well. The client module is in communication with each of the display module the vehicle module and the vehicle network by a plurality of data links . The data links may be any type of bidirectional communication interface such as for example a wireless network or data communication lines. In one embodiment some or all of the data links are part of a Media Oriented Systems Transport MOST network.

The client module is also in communication with at least one remote device that is not part of the vehicle electronic system. In the embodiment as shown the client module is in communication with an off board server by a data link and a remote electronic device by a data link . The data links and are also any type of bidirectional communication interface. For example the data link between the client module and the off board server is either through a Network Access Device embedded in the vehicle or by a Bluetooth phone data connection. The data link between the client module and the electronic device can be either a Bluetooth signal or a universal serial bus USB connection.

The vehicle network is any type of vehicle network for communicating information regarding one of more vehicle systems. In the embodiment as illustrated the vehicle network is a controller area network CAN that is a vehicle bus designed to allow different control modules to communicate with each other in a vehicle. The network is in communication with both of the client module and the vehicle module through the data links . In one embodiment the vehicle network sends data signals indicating diagnostic information generated by one of the vehicle systems to the client module and the vehicle module .

The vehicle module regulates operation of one of the vehicle systems and is preferably an electronic control device having a preprogrammed digital computer or processor control logic memory used to store data and at least one I O peripheral. The control logic includes a plurality of logic routines for monitoring manipulating and generating data. The vehicle module can be any type of electronic control module such as for example an engine control module a telematics control module or a transmission control module. It should be noted that while illustrates only one module for regulating a vehicle system it is understood that any number of control modules that are used to regulate a vehicle system may be used as well.

The vehicle module has software including an application logic that is responsible for performing the data processing required of the vehicle module . When the software environment generates graphical content that is intended for display on the display module the vehicle module transmits the graphical content over the data links and to the client module in a particular format. Specifically the software generates several types of data signals that are in a scripting language format a markup language format and a style sheet language format.

The scripting language format data can be any type of scripting language such as for example JAVASCRIPT. It may be preferable to use JAVASCRIPT in some types of applications in an effort to reduce development time as JAVASCRIPT is an industry standard language however those skilled in the art will appreciate that other types of scripting languages can be used as well. The markup language format data can be any type of markup language that is used to structure and index the text that is to be displayed on the display monitor such as for example extensible markup language XML or hypertext markup language HTML . However it may be preferable to use HTML in some types of applications in an effort to reduce development time as HTML is an industry standard language. The software environment also includes a markup generator that is used to generate the markup language that is needed to structure and index the text that is to be displayed on the display monitor . The style sheet format data can be any type of style sheet language that is used to describe the presentation of the text that is to be displayed on the display monitor . For example the style sheet language can describe font type size and color. In one embodiment cascading style sheet CSS language is used however those skilled in the art will appreciate that other types of style sheet languages may be used as well.

The client module receives the graphical content data including data signals that are in the scripting language format the markup language format and a style sheet language format from the vehicle module . The client module is used to send and receive data from the display monitor and is preferably an electronic control device having a preprogrammed digital computer or processor control logic memory used to store data and at least one I O peripheral. The control logic includes a plurality of logic routines for monitoring manipulating and generating data. The client module includes client module software a layout or rendering engine a layered application programming interface API and scripting language engine a memory for storing files and a CAN interface .

The rendering engine is used to receive the data signals in the markup language and the style sheet language format and displays the data signals on the display monitor as a graphical user interface GUI . The rendering engine receives data signals from the vehicle module as well as the memory of the client module where the memory includes localized markup language files. For example in one embodiment the memory includes several HTML files. The API and scripting engine is used to access data signals as well as provide an interface between the display monitor and the vehicle module . Specifically the API and scripting engine is used to interact with the data signal indicative of the scripting language from the vehicle module . The API and scripting engine is also used to read the data signal indicative of the scripting language and then execute the scripting language accordingly. In one embodiment the client module includes memory that stores scripting data and the API and scripting engine is used to interact and execute the scripting data that is stored in the memory of the client module .

The client module is also used to receive user input from the display module and send the commands or data requests over the data links to the vehicle module and the vehicle network . The display monitor is a screen such as for example a liquid crystal display LCD that electronically displays graphics like text images and moving pictures. In one embodiment the display monitor is located in an area of a vehicle that can be viewed by a driver such as for example in the center console located within an interior of a vehicle. The display monitor may also include selectable controls not shown that a user can manipulate to generate a user input. The user input is communicated to the client module through the data link . The API and scripting engine interacts with the user input from the display monitor and sends control messages and data requests indicative of the user input to the vehicle module and the vehicle network through the data links . For example if the display module shows a navigational display on the screen and a user input indicative of a desired location is inputted through the controls the user input is communicated to the client module . The API and scripting engine sends control messages and data requests indicative of the user input to the vehicle module through the data links . In this above mentioned example the vehicle module is a telematics control module. The vehicle module processes the control messages and data requests generated by the user input and generates the graphical content data based on the user input. The vehicle module then communicates the graphical content data to the client module by data signals that are in the scripting language format the markup language format and the style sheet language format through the data links .

The client module can also display information from an electronic device or a remote data source that is in communication with the client module as well. In the embodiment as shown the control module is in communication with the off board server by the data link . In one embodiment the off board server provides an Internet connection. The off board server generates graphical content such as an Internet webpage that is intended for display on the display module and transmits the graphical content over the data links and to the client module in the form of the scripting language format the markup language format and the style sheet language format. The client module receives the graphical content data including data signals that are in the scripting language format the markup language format and a style sheet language format from the off board server . The rendering engine is used to receive and display the data signals in the markup language and the style sheet language format on the display monitor . The API and scripting engine is used to interact with the data signal indicative of the scripting language from the off board server and also executes the scripting language accordingly.

The client module can also display information from the electronic device that is in communication with the client module . The electronic device is any type of electronic device that is capable of generating and sending graphical content through the data link . For example the electronic device can be a smartphone a PDA or a laptop computer. The electronic device generates graphical content and transmits the graphical content over the data link and to the client module in the form of the scripting language format the markup language format and the style sheet language format. The rendering engine is used to receive the data signals in the markup language and the style sheet language format from the electronic device and displays the data signals on the display monitor . The API and scripting engine is used to interact with the data signal indicative of the scripting language from the electronic device and executes the scripting language accordingly.

Any internal application processing and application logic that is specific to either the vehicle module or the electronic device is not affected by the ability of the client module to display graphical data generated by the vehicle module or electronic device . The rendering engine of the client module allows the graphical data generated by the vehicle module the off board server and the electronic device to be displayed on the display module using any type of desired structure and presentation. Some other types of communication data systems that are currently available have predefined graphical templates that are usually stored within the memory of a client module. The predefined graphical templates have a preselected text layout character font size and color. When another control module or electronic device sends graphical data to the client module the graphical data can only be displayed using one of the predefined templates. In contrast the communication data system is able to display the graphical data without the need for a predefined template. Instead the display monitor displays the graphical data using the text layout character font size and color that is generated by either vehicle module the off board server or the electronic device . For example if the electronic device is a device having an Internet browser the display module will display the text layout character font size and color generated by a specific Internet webpage.

Turning now to and with continued reference to a method for communicating data through the client module to the display monitor is generally indicated by reference number . The method begins at step where the communication data system is provided with the display monitor the client module the vehicle module and the vehicle network . The client module can also be in communication with a remote device such as the off board server the electronic device or both. The client module is in communication with the display monitor the vehicle module and the vehicle network by the data links . The client module is in communication with the off board server by the data link and the electronic device by the data link . The method then proceeds to step .

In step the client module includes control logic for monitoring the vehicle module the vehicle network the off board server and the electronic device for graphical content data. The graphical content data includes several types of data signals that are in the scripting language format the markup language format and the style sheet language format. If client module does not receive graphical content data then the client module continues to monitor the vehicle module the vehicle network the off board server and the electronic device . However if the client module receives a data signal from at least one of the vehicle module the vehicle network the off board server and the electronic device then method may proceed to step .

In step the rendering engine of the client module receives and displays the data signals in the markup language and the style sheet language format on the display monitor . The markup language can be any type of markup language that is used to structure and index the text that is to be displayed on the display monitor . In one example may be preferable to use HTML in some types of applications in an effort to reduce development time. The markup generator is used to generate the markup language that is needed to structure and index the text that is to be displayed on the display monitor . The style sheet format data is any type of style sheet language that is used to describe the presentation of the text that is to be displayed on the display monitor . The data signals are shown on the display monitor as a graphical user interface GUI . Method may then proceed to step .

In step the API and scripting engine interacts with the data signal indicative of the scripting language and executes the scripting language accordingly. The scripting language format data can be any type of scripting language. However it may be preferable to use Javascript in some types of applications in an effort to reduce development time. Method may then proceed to step .

In step the client module includes control logic for monitoring the display module for data signals indicative of user input. The display module includes selectable controls not shown that a user can manipulate to generate a user input. The user input is communicated to the client module through the data link . If the client module does not detect a data signal indicative of user input then the client module continues to monitor the display module . If a data signal indicative of user input is detected by the client module then method may proceed to step .

In step the data indicative of the user input is sent to the client module . The API and scripting engine of the client module interacts with the user input from the display monitor where the data indicative of the user input is in the form of control messages and data requests. Method may then proceed to step .

In step control messages and data requests indicative of the user input are sent to at least one of the vehicle module the vehicle network the off board server or the electronic device . Method may then either return to step where the client module monitors the vehicle module the vehicle network the off board server and the electronic device for graphical content data. Alternatively method may then terminate.

The description of the invention is merely exemplary in nature and variations that do not depart from the gist of the invention are intended to be within the scope of the invention. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention.

