---

title: Planar tri-mode cavity
abstract: A system and method for distributing the power of an electromagnetic signal is presented. In one embodiment, a power distribution cavity includes, a planar cavity, input ports and output ports. The planar cavity is formed with a metallic sheet in the shape of a star pattern with a plurality of elongated star arms extending from a round center portion of the metallic sheet. The input ports are attached to the round center portion of the metallic sheet for receiving an input signal. The signals entering the cavity from the input ports creating independent resonant modes within the cavity that combine producing a tapered aperture distribution of signals at the output ports. The output ports are attached near to the outward ends of the elongated star arms. The planar cavity is thus configured to propagate electromagnetic fields at the output ports that were excited within the cavity by the input ports.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08664807&OS=08664807&RS=08664807
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08664807
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110106
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 293 028 filed Jan. 7 2010 the disclosure of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. N00421 06 G 0004 YS08 awarded by The United States Navy. The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

The current invention relates generally to apparatus systems and methods for the transmission and reception of electromagnetic waves. More particularly the apparatus systems and methods transmit and receive electromagnetic waves with an array of antennas. Specifically the apparatus systems and methods provide for transmitting or receiving electromagnetic waves based on signals combined coherently by the planar tri mode cavity.

Beamforming is a signal processing technique used in sensor arrays for directional signal transmission or reception. Circular array systems are generally comprised of three major parts 1 the beamformer 2 the commutator and 3 a circular array of radiating antenna elements. Beamformers often include a power divider that splits the input power into portions that are sent to each element of the antenna array so that a beam is radiated. The radiated beam is shaped by the aperture distribution taper which is the amplitude and phase of the power going to each element of the array. In this invention a tri mode cavity is used to shape the aperture distribution. In a circular array beamforming takes advantage of illuminating an arc of sequentially arrayed elements that is centered about the direction of signal transmission or reception. The beamformer then controls the phase and relative amplitude of the signal at each antenna element in order to create a pattern of constructive and destructive interference in the wavefront. When the beam needs to be steered in a different direction this aperture distribution needs to be commutated to a different set of array elements that point in that direction. Assuming that each output port of the trimode cavity beamformer is pre wired to each antenna element of the array then the aperture distribution needs to be transferred to the new set of elements. By changing the phase of the inputs to the tri mode cavity the same aperture distribution can be produced at a different set of consecutive output ports that feed the appropriate antenna elements in the array.

Prior tri mode cavity radio frequency power distribution systems such as those disclosed by David Lerner in U.S. Pat. No. 4 005 379 generally functioned in the region of L band 1.030 GHz and contained a tri mode cavity of a generally cylindrical shape with a multitude of standard SMA or T connectors located around the circumference. Tri mode cavities are often large heavy and expensive to manufacture.

In order for beamformers to function at higher GHz values it is necessary to find an alternative to the previously bulky structures. Simply scaling down these bulky structures creates overlap amongst the multitude of probe connectors when the probe connectors are arranged in the more confined area. Additionally this decrease in size required for the tri mode cavity to function at higher GHz levels necessitates more rigorous tolerances and these tolerances make previous designs prohibitively expensive to manufacture. Therefore there exists a need for a better power distribution cavity.

The preferred embodiment of the invention a power distribution cavity includes a planar cavity input ports and output ports. The planar cavity is formed with a metallic sheet in the shape of a star pattern with a plurality of elongated star arms extending from a round center portion of the metallic sheet. The input ports are attached to the round center portion of the metallic sheet for receiving an input signal. The output ports are attached near outward ends of the elongated star arms wherein the planar cavity is configured to propagate electromagnetic fields excited at the input ports to the output ports.

In another configuration of the preferred embodiment the power distribution cavity includes a sheet of dielectric material with the metallic sheet located on a top surface of the dielectric material. An additional sheet of metal forming a ground plane is located under the sheet of dielectric material. The sheet of dielectric material and the sheet of metal forming a ground plane extend outwardly beyond the outward ends of the elongated star arms. The ground plane and the metallic sheet are formed on a printed circuit board PCB and can be copper.

In one configuration of the preferred embodiment the input ports include a transverse electromagnetic mode TEM input located near a center of the star pattern configured to receive a TEM signal. The input port further includes a pair of transverse electric TE mode inputs to receive a pair of TE signals where one of the TE signals is a phase shifted version of the other TE signal.

In some configurations of the preferred embodiment the elongated star arms extend outward from the round center portion of the metallic sheet in an oval pattern. The star ends can be spread out in equal circumferential distances from each other in the oval pattern. The star ends can be arranged in a circle with the star ends lying on the circle. In one configuration of the preferred embodiment there are 16 elongated star arms.

An alternative embodiment of the invention is a cavity consisting of a bottom metallic sheet forming the ground and a top metallic sheet over a dielectric substate. The top sheet can take on geometries such as circular square or triangular or any polygon that allow electromagnetic signals to form electrical modes such as TEM TE and TM modes that combine within the cavity to form an appropriate signal excitation at the output ports to produce the desired aperture distribution. The input ports to the cavity are usually disposed symmetrically although not necessarily around the center of the cavity to excite the modes. The signals in each excitation mode then combine within the cavity and are picked up by the output ports which are usually also symmetrically disposed around the outside perimeter of the cavity. The transition between the cavity and the output ports of the trimode can be direct coupling via coaxial probes penetrating the top metallic sheet to make contact with the bottom metallic sheet or gradual transition via a starburst pattern of metallic arms on top of the dielectric sheet which extend from the cavity circle to the probe tips as identified in the preferred embodiment.

A second embodiment of the invention includes a beam forming system. The beam forming system includes an array of antennas a modal power divider a tri mode cavity input and output ports on the tri modal cavity and a commutator. The modal power divider partitions a radio frequency RF input to generate divided RF signals to excite different RF modes within the tri mode cavity. The tri mode cavity comprises a planar metallic sheet shaped in a starburst pattern that has a center portion with a plurality of elongated star arms extending outward from the center portion. The input ports are connected to the center portion of the starburst pattern to receive the divided RF signals. The output ports are connected to generally pointed endpoints of outwardly extending ends of the elongated star arms and are configured to receive exited electromagnetic fields generated by the tri mode cavity. The commutator phase shifts signals received from the output ports to produce shifted signals. The commutator additionally switches the shifted signals onto the array of antennas for transmission.

In some configurations of the second embodiment the beam forming system includes a dielectric sheet and the planar metallic sheet is a planar metal sheet deposited on one side of the dielectric sheet. The metallic sheet can be a copper sheet. The modal power divider can include a balun configured to generate a pair of transverse electric TE mode inputs from the RF input where the divided RF signals includes the pair of TE mode inputs. The balun preferably should include provisions within its circuitry to electrically isolate the TE modes from each other and from the TEM mode.

The preferred embodiment may be configured as a method of beam forming. The method divides a radio frequency RF signal to produce divided signals. RF power distributed signals are generated based at least in part on the divided signals. The RF power distributed signals are generated by inputting the divided signals into a center portion of a planar metallic sheet of metal shaped as a star with radially extending arms extending around the center portion. The RF power distributed signals are received at output ports located at ends of the radially extending arms. The method passes the RF power distributed signals through a commutator to produce commutated signals and then sends the commutated signals to an antenna array for transmission.

In one configuration of the method the passing the RF power distributed signals through a commutator includes passing the RF power distributed signals through phase adjustment devices to produce phase adjusted signals. Additionally the phase adjusted signals are passed through switches to produce the commutated signals. The switches can be single pole 4 throw SP4T switches or single pole by n throw SPnT depending on how many circular array elements there are.

In another configuration of the preferred embodiment a transverse electromagnetic TEM signal and a pair of transverse electric TE mode signals can be produced. The divided signals include the TEM signal and the TE mode signals. The pair of TE mode signals can be generated with a balun.

In the preferred embodiment the shape of the center of the planar tri mode cavity of the beamformer is a starburst sunburst shape as discussed in more detail later with reference to . The starburst shape is about the same as that of the diameter of a traditional cylindrical cavity except reduced by the square root of the relative dielectric constant of the substrate on which the starburst pattern is printed. In the preferred embodiment there are five input probes four of which are TE mode input pairs fed by 0 180 hybrids. The center probe is the TEM mode input. The fields beneath the solid round center of the starburst and the ground plane of the planar tri mode cavity are the similar as between the tops of the two overlaying cylinders in the prior art cylindrical metallic tri mode cavity. Instead of the fields radiating down the sides of the overlaying cylinders the blended modal fields propagate out to the tips of the rays of the starburst shape of the planar tri mode cavity . In the preferred embodiment the tips are tapered to a width representing a 50 microstripline so that 50 connectors could be placed to pick up the voltage to send to the rest of the commutator assembly. The position of the TE and TEM input probes around the center of the starburst is dependent on several factors such as substrate thickness dielectric constant and probe impedance desired.

Even though the preferred embodiment of the cavity is a star shaped pattern other patterns and shapes can be used. For example consider an alternative embodiment of the invention that a cavity consisting of a bottom metallic sheet forming the ground and a top metallic sheet over a dielectric substate. The top sheet can take on geometries such as circular square or triangular or any polygon that allow electromagnetic signals to form electrical modes such as TEM TE and TM modes that combine within the cavity to form an appropriate signal excitation at the output ports to produce the desired aperture distribution. The input ports to the cavity are usually disposed symmetrically although not necessarily around the center of the cavity to excite the modes. The signals in each excitation mode then combine within the cavity and are picked up by the output ports which are usually also symmetrically disposed around the outside perimeter of the cavity. The transition between the cavity and the output ports of the trimode can be direct coupling via coaxial probes penetrating the top metallic sheet to make contact with the bottom metallic sheet or gradual transition via a starburst pattern of metallic arms on top of the dielectric sheet which extend from the cavity circle to the probe tips as identified in the preferred embodiment.

In order to better appreciate the benefits of the greatly reduced size complexity and cost of the planar tri mode cavity over a prior art cylindrical tri mode cavity the prior art tri mode cavity operating in the beamforming system of will be discussed before discussing further details of the preferred embodiment of the planar tri mode cavity .

The TEM mode input port allows an omni directional pattern to be transmitted when all the input power is diverted to the TEM mode input port . When transmitting or receiving a beam the input power is divided between the TEM mode input port and the two TE mode exciters with phase shifters in line. The TE mode exciters each feed a 0 180 hybrid whose output is directly coupled to the tri mode cavity. The two sets of hybrid outputs are located on tri mode cavity so that they are orthogonal 90 to each other. Therefore the TE modes are physically independent of the other. The TEM mode input port feeds the cavity like a coax cable.

The prior art tri mode cavity is comprised of a smaller cylinder inside another with a small space between the two cylinders. The inside cylinder is like the center of a coax cable. It is within this space that all the modes combine to feed the output probes. There are 16 probes located around the circumference of the tri mode cavity a small distance away from the top of the cavity where all the modes are excited. The probe connectors are grounded to the external cylinder and center probe conductors of the probe connectors penetrate the outer cylinder and cross the inter cylinder space to connect to the inner cylinder. The fields of the excited modes propagate down the inner space to be combined at these output probes .

In operation the cavity modes are excited with the phase and amplitude levels needed to provide a tapered aperture illumination of the antennas . The array is a circular ring array with 64 antenna elements arranged around the circumference of the ring. There are 16 consecutive elements along the ring that are illuminated by the output of the tri mode cavity at a given time that provides the ability produce a beam in a specified azimuthal direction. The illumination of the elements is symmetrical meaning that the amplitude and phase of the second set of eight elements is the mirror image of the illumination of the first set of eight elements. The aperture illumination is tapered such that the center two elements have the largest amplitude which decreases with a cosine raised to a power on a pedestal taper towards the outer elements of the aperture. This type of aperture distribution produces an antenna beam with very low sidelobes.

To compensate for the curvature of the antenna a 16 4 bit phase shifters A P are added between the outputs of the prior art tri mode cavity and the SP4T switches A P to add the phase delay needed to make the projected element pattern in coherent with the other element patterns at the effective aperture plane. The 16 phase shifters A P are also used to finely position the radiation pattern beam to 16 other positions of 0.316 increments in between the 5.625 arc between the consecutive array elements.

The prior art tri mode cavity is comprised of the cylindrical cavity and the feed balun top plate as shown in . The TEM mode input enters the cavity at the center probe that has an extending stem. The balun receives each of the two TE mode radio frequency excitations from the power divider and further divides each into two probes of equal power with opposite or 0 180 phase. The balun also provides high isolation between the TE and TEM mode by reflecting a high impedance at the probes within the tri mode cavity for TEM mode excitation picked up by the TE mode probes.

The probes penetrate the topside of the tri mode cavity as shown in . The space between the two cylinders creates a resonator whereby the probes can excite E fields oriented perpendicularly between the top plates of the cavity. These fields are similar to those fields excited within a dual polarized microstrip patch antenna. The E field in the patch antenna is found by applying the following boundary conditions 1 the patch is thin relative to wavelength 2 the E field only exists in the z direction 3 the H field goes to zero at the edge of the patch and 4 the radiation to free space occurs between the patch and the ground plane around the periphery of the patch.

The radial components of the E and H fields within the resonator are given by the following equations 

The patch cavity model makes the assumption that the impedance at the edge of the patch is much larger than the impedance at the center of the patch. Therefore the H term is assumed to go to zero at the patch s edge. This requires that the argument within the derivative of the Bessel function term be such that J k goes to zero. Since k 1.84118 and we know k then 3.36 inches or d 6.72 inches. This is between the diameters of the inner 6.6 inch and outer 7.2 inch cylinders of the tri mode cavity as seen in . The E field excited by the TEM probe is a constant everywhere pointing in the z direction. Since the E field due to the TE mode goes to zero at the center where the TEM probe is located the TEM probe does not interference with the TE mode. The same is true with the TE probes but for a different reason. When the TE input is split into feedlines one side is out of phase with the other. When the TE probes A B A B pick up a TEM signal that is in phase they arrive at the split point in the balun where they cancel each other. Therefore they reflect very high impedance back to the probes within the cavity. Hence the TE probes A B A B generally do not load down the TEM mode fields. The TE probes A B A B also serve a second purpose of suppressing the higher order modes that could be excited within the cavity especially the even modes.

When the second set of TE input probes A B is placed on a line orthogonal to the line formed by the two probes A B of the first TE mode input the new probes lie on the null E field line of the first TE mode. Therefore these probes A B have no impact on the first TE mode in the cavity or on the TEM mode. Therefore the important result to recognize is that the total fields excited within the tri mode cavity are obtained by summing each mode together. Since the radius remains constant at the edge of the resonant cavity the only variable that changes is the total E field around the top edge of the cavity is given by cos cos 90 cos sin 

The field at the edge is assumed to be launched into the space between the sides of the tri mode cavity cylinders propagating as if it were between parallel plates with the same gap separation. Extensive analysis was done to determine how much of any point along the top edge contributed to individual output probe locations along the sides of the tri mode cavity. It was found that if the output probes were far enough from the top edge and 4 from the bottom of the cavity the fields at the probes could be estimated by the Eequation above with probe position angle.

In order to verify this analysis an HFSS EM model of the cavity was constructed. The fields for a condition where modal excitation were related as E square root over 2 E and E jEwere run in the model for various phases assigned to E. The amplitudes of the fields at each individual probe for different TEM mode phase excitations are plotted in . From the field equation for the tri mode cavity it can be seen that it is the relative phase difference between the modal excitations is the mechanism that steers the peak of the excitation to a particular probe.

Returning to the preferred embodiment illustrates a side view and a top view of the planar microstripline tri mode cavity of the beamformer . The planar tri mode cavity in can be fabricated to function at L band. The measured output probe voltages are presented in . Output probes voltage measured dB at 1.030 and 1.090 GHz are plotted versus probe number. TE A B A B and TEM mode inputs were fixed. The output voltages measured from the planar tri mode cavity are very similar to those voltages measured from prior art tri mode cavities.

As shown in the metal layer is deposited on top of dielectric material that has a thickness H. The metal layer and dielectric can be formed as a printed circuit board PCB . The thickness of the dielectric material and the relative permittivity of the dielectric material can also contribute to the efficiency of the planar tri mode cavity . In the preferred embodiment a ground plane can be deposited to the bottom of the dielectric material . The ground plane and dielectric material may extend beyond outer star points of the starburst pattern of the planar tri mode cavity . The planar tri mode cavity can also include a TEM input node a couple of pairs of TE input ports A B A B and output ports .

Referring to the starburst shape of the planar tri mode cavity can be a star shape with star points arranged in an oval pattern. For example the diameters D and D shown in are of similar lengths which results in the shape that is circular as shown by circles C and C. However if diameters D and D have different lengths then the shape would be more elliptical. In the preferred embodiment the star points are spaced equal circumferential distances from each other in the circular pattern. The star points may have tips and bases between adjacent star points . The star tips can lie on the circle C with a diameter D and the star bases can lie on the smaller circle C with a diameter D. Circles C and C are concentric with a common center C in the preferred embodiment. In the preferred embodiment the star shape will have about 16 star points and the a length from one of the bases to a tip of a corresponding star point has a length L that is about one half the radius R of the circle with Diameter D. In another embodiment of the preferred invention the star tips may be rounded tips. The star shaped can also resemble a sinusoidal waveform shape that has been bent into a circular shape where each star point can additionally be elongated.

As also shown in in the preferred embodiment the angle between one star tip A and an adjacent star base A on one side of the star tip A is similar to the angle between the same star tip A and the star base B on the other side of the star tip A. The angle between one star base A and an adjacent star tip A is similar to the angle between the same star base A and the star tip B on the other side of the star base A. Additionally the angle between two adjacent start tips A B is similar to the angle between two adjacent star bases A B. Of course those of ordinary skill in the art will realize that other angles diameters lengths and dimensions could be used.

Since the rays of the sunburst planar tri mode cavity of the beamformer are sensitive to field distortion from objects that are in proximity to the starburst a second embodiment of a planar cavity was formed as an enclosed planar tri mode cavity as in was fabricated and tested. In this embodiment the rays arms of the starburst shape of the preferred embodiment of the planar tri mode cavity were removed and the circler center portion was made with a larger diameter. The cavity can be formed with a copper layer placed over a dielectric layer with a second copper layer formed on the bottom of the dielectric layer. TE mode inputs A B and A B are positioned near the center of the cavity . A TEM input may also be located at the center of the cavity . The output ports were placed in line with a circumference with a radius that is 4 distance from the edge of the circle which was closed electrically with copper tape .

Example methods may be better appreciated with reference to flow diagrams. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the illustrated methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from that shown and described. Moreover less than all the illustrated blocks may be required to implement an example methodology. Blocks may be combined or separated into multiple components. Furthermore additional and or alternative methodologies can employ additional not illustrated blocks.

In the foregoing description certain terms have been used for brevity clearness and understanding. No unnecessary limitations are to be implied therefrom beyond the requirement of the prior art because such terms are used for descriptive purposes and are intended to be broadly construed. Therefore the invention is not limited to the specific details the representative embodiments and illustrative examples shown and described. Thus this application is intended to embrace alterations modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

Moreover the description and illustration of the invention is an example and the invention is not limited to the exact details shown or described. References to the preferred embodiment an embodiment one example an example and so on indicate that the embodiment s or example s so described may include a particular feature structure characteristic property element or limitation but that not every embodiment or example necessarily includes that particular feature structure characteristic property element or limitation. Furthermore repeated use of the phrase in the preferred embodiment does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment though it may.

