---

title: Social television
abstract: A system may include a media content processing subsystem configured to provide media content to a display device. The system may further include an adjunct computing device in communication with the media content processing subsystem and configured to receive interactive program guide data, receive social information associated with an account on a social network, and display the interactive program guide data augmented with the social information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08863185&OS=08863185&RS=08863185
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08863185
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110104
---
The advent of computers electronic communication and other advances in the digital realm of consumer electronics has resulted in a great variety of enhanced programming recording and viewing options for users who view media content such as television programs. In implementing such enhanced options media content processing subsystems MCPSs such as set top boxes have become important computing devices for accessing media content services and the media content within those services. In addition to supporting traditional analog broadcast video functionality MCPSs also support an increasing number of digital services such as video on demand internet protocol television IPTV and personal video recording.

A MCPS is typically connected to a media content provider and includes hardware and or software necessary to provide enhanced options for a subscriber television system at a subscriber location. A MCPS is usually configured to provide users with a large number and variety of media content choices. For example a user may choose to view a variety of broadcast television programs pay per view services video on demand programming Internet services and audio programming via a MCPS.

While a MCPS may provide a user with an increasing variety of media content choices users of such systems still experience media content in substantially the same passive manner as they have done before with social interaction limited to conversations among those physically present in the same room.

Through social networking the Internet has become increasingly socially integrated. Facebook allows users to reconnect and keep up with friends and family across the world in near real time. Twitter allows users to broadcast messages easily and quickly to an entire world of potential followers. Linked in allows users to maintain their business contacts and relationships and recommend people professionally to one another based on their previous work. These and other social networking services allow users to create and maintain a representation of their social relationships online.

A digital representation of the users and their connections to other users may be referred to as a social graph. In a social graph each person may be represented as a node of the graph and each connection between people such as people who are friends co workers or family members may be represented as an edge in the graph. Users may create accounts on a social networking service and may input their connections to into the service. The social graph may accordingly come to represent and change with the social structure of users who are tied to one another such as by way of friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike sexual relationship beliefs knowledge and or prestige.

Once created social graphs may then be applied to enrich user interaction with content on the Internet. For example some social networking websites provide functionality that allows users to comment on website content post those comments to the user s own social networking profile pages and share those comments with their own friends on one or more social networking sites.

Despite these developments online viewing of media content via a MCPS continues to be a passive experience. However through use of a companion device having access to a user s social graph an enhanced system may transform media content viewing into a new social experience. The enhanced system may associate accounts of subscribers to a media content system with accounts of users on a social network and may thus use the social graph and other information associated with users of the social network to socially enhance the viewing of media content.

The companion device may augment an interactive program guide to provide features such as an ability to show all friends of the user of the social network who are also watching the same media content show what media content each of the friends of the user of the social network are experiencing provide chat functionality to allow the user to communicate with his or her friends from the social network allow users to invite other social friends to watch a particular instance of media content allow users to invite other social friends to chat privately and allow users to provide presence information relating to other social friends who may be logged into the system. Using such a media system augmented with a social graph the system may accordingly provide real time interaction which revolves around a shared experience i.e. watching the same television program at the same time. This form of real time social television is in contrast to more traditional blogging about TV shows news sports and other media which is not in real time or in the moment. Further details of these and other aspects of the social experience available through use of the companion device are described in greater detail below.

The terms media content instance or instance of media content may be used to refer generally to any television program on demand program pay per view program broadcast media program video on demand program commercial advertisement video multimedia movie song photograph audio programming network services e.g. Internet or any segment portion component or combination of these or other forms of media content that may be presented to and experienced e.g. viewed or heard by a user. A media content instance may have one or more components. For example an exemplary media content instance may include a video component and an audio component. Media content may include one or more media content instances.

IPG data may include information corresponding to instances of media content being broadcast streamed or otherwise available for being experienced by users. IPG data may include information on instances of media content such as title subtitle program summary included actors start and end time for broadcast and any additional cost that may be incurred to view the media content instance.

The media content provider may be configured to provide various types of media content including but not limited to any of the forms of media content described above. The media content provider may further be configured to provide IPG data . The media content provider may include a media content provider server configured to communicate with the MCPS via one or more types of networks and communications links. Exemplary networks may include the Internet an intranet or other private packet switched network a cable television network e.g. a hybrid fiber coax network a wireless broadcast network e.g. a satellite media broadcasting network or terrestrial broadcasting network a telephone network a provider specific network e.g. a Verizon FIOS network an optical fiber network or any other suitable network. While shows a single media content provider server in other embodiments the media content provider may include multiple media content provider servers . In some examples media content and IPG data may be provided by separate servers .

The MCPS may be configured to communicate with and receive IPG data and media content containing one or more media content instances from the media content provider . The MCPS and media content provider may communicate using various communication technologies devices media and protocols supportive of remote data communications including but not limited to cable networks subscriber television networks satellite networks the Internet intranets local area networks wireless networks e.g. mobile telephone networks optical fiber networks data transmission media communications devices Transmission Control Protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP File Transfer Protocol FTP Telnet Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP socket connections Ethernet video codecs including H.323 MPEG3 MPEG4 AVI WMV and SWF and other suitable communications networks and technologies.

The MCPS may be configured to process the media content provided by the media content provider and provide a signal to a display device . The MCPS may further be configured to process the IPG data so as to provide an IPG. The display device may be configured to receive the signal and present the IPG and or media content . The display device may include but is not limited to a display screen a television computer monitor handheld device speaker or any other device configured to present the media content . The display device may receive and process output signals from the MCPS such that content of the output signals is received for experiencing by the user. Presentation of an instance of media content may include but is not limited to displaying playing back or processing the instance of media content or one or more components of the instance of media content such as sound or video.

In some instances the MCPS may be implemented as a standalone set top box STB connected to a display device . In other instances rather than requiring each display device to have its own STB the MCPS may be implemented as a client server system in which a home media server gateway MCPS is installed in the home. The home media server gateway MCPS may be in communication with the media content provider and each display device may then use one of several thin client devices to access media content via the home media server gateway MCPS . In turn the home media server gateway MCPS may include one or more client handlers configured to respond to requests from the client devices. In some examples the client functionality may be implemented substantially as embedded hardware and or software included within the display device itself.

As discussed above the MCPS may include a communication interface configured to receive media content from the media content provider . The MCPS may further include an interface configured to receive input commands from a user input device. The user input device may include for example a remote control keyboard or any other suitable input device. The user input device may be configured to communicate with the MCPS via a wireless link e.g. an IR link electrical connection or any other suitable communication link.

In some examples a remote control device may be configured to enable a user to provide various commands and other input signals for controlling various settings and operations of the MCPS including control options related to the viewing of the media content . For example rewind and fast forward command may enable a user to access different scenes or frames within media content stored in a live cache buffer. A record command may also be included which enables the user to designate as permanently recorded any instance of media content buffered in the live cache buffer. A pause command may enable the user to pause an instance of media content . A program guide command may be configured to evoke the display of a program guide on the display device . Directional commands for example specified by left arrow right arrow up arrow and down arrow buttons may enable the user to navigate through various views and menus displayed on the display device via the MCPS . In some cases the MCPS may include an interface configured to perceive or otherwise receive input gestures from a user such as hand head eye or body movements and to determine input commands based on the received gestures.

In addition or in alternative to the remote control device the system may further include an adjunct device . The adjunct device may be a computing device including one or more components capable of receiving input from a user performing processing such as via a central processing unit CPU and providing output to the user of the device. Exemplary adjunct devices may include the Apple iPad provided by Apple Corporation of Cupertino Calif. as well as the HP Slate provided by Hewlett Packard Corporation of Palo Alto Calif.

The MCPS may include an adjunct control interface configured to provide bidirectional communications with the adjunct device . The communications transport used to provide communications between the adjunct control interface of the MCPS and the adjunct device may take various forms including but not limited to infrared signals radio signals wireless local area networking WLAN based on the IEEE 802.11 standards and Bluetooth communications developed and licensed by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG . Over the communications transport the adjunct control interface of the MCPS and the adjunct device may communicate in various forms including Internet Protocol packets application programming interface API calls web service interfaces and open or proprietary messaging protocols.

The adjunct control interface may be configured to receive TV control information for processing by the MCPS and also to send TV state information regarding the present status of the MCPS . Exemplary TV control information may include commands such as increasing or decreasing volume changing which instance of media content is to be experienced requesting TV state information or IPG data from the MCPS and receiving any other user input from a device to be processed by the MCPS . Exemplary TV state information may include what channel or instance of media content is currently being displayed by the display device the current volume or settings of the MCPS IPG data that is to be displayed by the adjunct device and or any other state information regarding the status of the MCPS that is relevant to the adjunct device .

The adjunct device may be implemented as a combination of hardware and software and may include one or more software applications or processes for causing one or more computer processors to perform the operations of the adjunct device described herein. A social TV application may be one such application included on the adjunct device and may be implemented at least in part by instructions stored on one or more non transitory computer readable media.

The social TV application may be configured to provide a user interface to allow for the operation and control of its functions by a user of the adjunct device . The social TV application may further provide feedback and other output to the user through the user interface to aid the user in making operational decisions with respect to the social TV system . The user interface may make use of hardware and layered software included in the adjunct device such as hardware and software keyboards buttons microphones display screens touch screens lights and sound producing devices. Exemplary user interfaces are illustrated in detail in discussed below.

The social TV application may be configured to pair with or be associated with for control of the MCPS send TV control information to the MCPS by way of the adjunct control interface and receive TV state information from the MCPS by way of the adjunct control interface .

The adjunct device may further be in communication with one or more social networks . The adjunct device may be in communication with the social networks directly or through the data center such as via the web server . The social network may be an online service platform or web site that allows for the building display and modification of a social graph of the relations among users of the system. The social network may accordingly define a social structure of users who are tied to one another through various relationships such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike sexual relationship beliefs knowledge and or prestige.

The social network may further provide an application programming interface API configured to provide social networking information such as the social graph and functionality from the social network for use in additional contexts. As some examples Google Friend Connect and Facebook Connect provide functionality that allows website operators to incorporate functionality relating to a user s social graph onto their own websites. These services allow users to comment on the web operator s content post those comments to the user s own profile pages and share those comments with their friends on the social network . This social information may further be shared with a social TV application in communication with the social network such as by way of an open or proprietary social networking information API.

The data center may include a web server and the web server may further be in communication with a database . Database may be configured to store and retrieve information relevant to support of the addition of social networking functionality into the social TV system . As an example to allow for the utilization of social network information with subscribers of the media content system the database may include a mapping of social networking accounts of users on the social network to accounts of subscribers of the media content system. The web server may be configured to use this mapping of accounts of users on the social network to accounts of MCPS subscribers to determine which social network information to provide to what adjunct devices .

The database may further include preferences of the users indications of which users are actively running the Social TV application recent message histories of the users identifiers of chat rooms in which the users are participating and identifier of channels or instances of media content currently being experienced by the subscribers. In other examples user preferences may be stored at least in part on the adjunct device .

Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP is an open technology for real time communication used over communication channels such as instant messaging Voice over IP real time collaboration social networking micro blogging lightweight middleware cloud computing and others. The XMPP server may be configured to utilize XMPP to provide presence information to the social TV application relating to which users to the social television system are presently online away or offline. The XMPP server may further be configured to facilitate the sending and receiving of instant messages among users of the social TV application . An exemplary XMPP server implementation may include use of the ejabberd messaging server software distributed by ProcessOne of Paris France.

The social information may include friend lists or social graph information for the current user which may then be manipulated locally by the social TV application . The social information may further include the sending and receiving of chat messages to and from users of adjunct devices the sending and receiving of presence information regarding users of the system and the sending and receiving of invitations to private chats and viewings of instances of media content .

The adjunct device and thus the social TV application may be in communication with the web server of the data center to obtain social information . For example the adjunct device may use the web server to query the database for information relating to which users of the social network are presently experiencing what media content . Using the social graph received from the social network and the mapping of user accounts on the social network to accounts of MCPS subscribers the data center may thus facilitate the relating of which users of the social network are presently experiencing what media content .

The adjunct device and social TV application may further be in communication with the XMPP server to provide additional social networking features i.e. user messaging user online status user invite in addition to features relating to instances of media content i.e. browsing the IPG experiencing an instance of media content recording instances of media content etc. . In some instances the adjunct device may also be configured to receive instances of media content such as from media content provider or another provider of media content.

Accordingly and as described in greater detail below through use of social information the social TV application may be configured to associate the adjunct device with an account of a social network receive social information from the social network augment IPG data received from the MCPS and display friend lists and IPG data augmented by the social information .

In general computing systems and or devices such as media content provider server MCPS adjunct device web server database and XMPP server may employ any of a number of computer operating systems including but by no means limited to versions and or varieties of the Microsoft Windows and Windows Phone operating systems distributed by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. the Unix operating system e.g. the Solaris operating system distributed by Sun Microsystems of Menlo Park Calif. the AIX UNIX operating system distributed by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. the Linux operating system the Mac OS X and iOS operating systems distributed by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. the BlackBerry OS distributed by Research In Motion of Waterloo Canada and the Android operating system developed by the Open Handset Alliance.

Computing devices generally include computer executable instructions and one or more processors where the instructions may be executable by one or more computing devices such as those listed above. Computer executable instructions may be compiled or interpreted from computer programs created using a variety of programming languages and or technologies including without limitation and either alone or in combination Java C C C Visual Basic HTML 5 Java Script Perl Erlang etc. In general a processor e.g. a microprocessor receives instructions e.g. from a memory a computer readable medium etc. and executes these instructions thereby performing one or more processes including one or more of the processes described herein. Such instructions and other data may be stored and transmitted using a variety of computer readable media.

A computer readable medium also referred to as a processor readable medium includes any non transitory e.g. tangible medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions that may be read by a computer e.g. by a processor of a computer . Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media may include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media may include for example dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes a main memory. Such instructions may be transmitted by one or more transmission media including coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to a processor of a computer. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Databases data repositories or other data stores described herein may include various kinds of mechanisms for storing accessing and retrieving various kinds of data including a hierarchical database a set of files in a file system an application database in a proprietary format a relational database management system RDBMS etc. Each such data store is generally included within a computing device employing a computer operating system such as one of those mentioned above and is accessed via a network in any one or more of a variety of manners. A file system may be accessible from a computer operating system and may include files stored in various formats. An RDBMS may employ the Structured Query Language SQL in addition to a language for creating storing editing and executing stored procedures such as the PL SQL language mentioned above. Exemplary RMDBS implementations may include the Oracle database software provided by Oracle Corp. of Redwood Shores Calif. and the Microsoft SQL Server software provided by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash.

In some examples system elements may be implemented as computer readable instructions e.g. software on one or more computing devices e.g. servers personal computers etc. stored on computer readable media associated therewith e.g. disks memories etc. . A computer program product may comprise such instructions stored on computer readable media for carrying out the functions described herein. For instance an MCPS may be implemented via software as a software MCPS . In some cases the software MCPS may even be incorporated on the same device as the companion computing device such that an adjunct device may include and execute instructions both for a software MCPS and also for a social TV application .

A pairing process may be initiated the first time a device receives a connection request from a device with which it is not yet paired. In some examples the pairing may be performed via Bluetooth communications between an adjunct device and an adjunct control interface of a MCPS . When performing pairing between the adjunct device and an MCPS the adjunct device and or the MCPS may prompt the user to confirm the pairing process. In some examples for security a user may be required to enter the same identification number or code into each device to be paired or may be required to verify that both devices display an identical generated code. Once a pairing has been established it may be remembered by one or more devices which may then be able to connect to each other when desired. As some examples pairing information may be maintained by the adjunct device the paired MCPS a home gateway client server MCPS driving multiple display devices or a media content provider in communication with the subscriber site.

When pressed the MCPS selector control may be configured to display the MCPS menu . As shown the MCPS selector control has been pressed and the MCPS menu is displayed. The MCPS menu may be further configured to indicate the current MCPS if any that is paired with the adjunct device . In some instances the MCPS selector control may be further configured to indicate the currently paired MCPS if any when the MCPS selector control is in an un pressed state.

The MCPS menu may include a listing of MCPSs that are available for pairing with the adjunct device . This listing may include one or more MCPSs with which the adjunct device has previously been paired. The user may select an MCPS from the MCPS menu to pair the adjunct device with that MCPS . If an MCPS not indicated in the MCPS menu is desired by the user the user may press the add control to enter in details of a new MCPS to add to the list such as a name or label for the MCPS an identifier of the MCPS and or a passcode of the MCPS to allow for pairing of the adjunct device with the MCPS . In some examples the system may support auto discovery of MCPSs within range of the Social TV application running on the adjunct device . Nevertheless the pairing operation may involve selection of an MCPS to be associated with the Social TV application and may further include an authentication step to prevent unauthorized access to subscriber MCPSs .

Once the adjunct device is paired with an MCPS the user interface of the adjunct device may be configured to display content supplementing that displayed by a display device connected to the MCPS . If the adjunct device is already paired with an MCPS the user may also use the MCPS menu to change the pairing of the adjunct device to be paired with another MCPS .

Pairing may be performed with a related service offering software and or hardware and does not necessarily imply association with a separate hardware device. For example in cases where the MCPS is implemented as software pairing may occur between the social TV application of the adjunct device and the software MCPS application of the adjunct device that provides streaming live video IPG content authorization and or video playback functionality.

An informational display may be configured to display information regarding the paired MCPS . For instance the information display may include a statement indicative of which MCPS is currently paired with the adjunct device . As shown in the exemplary statement Your Living Room Device is tuned to indicates that the MCPS labeled or named as Living Room is presently paired with the adjunct device . Moreover the information display may further include additional information regarding what media content is being provided by the MCPS . As some examples the informational display may be configured to display what channel and media content are currently being experienced by a viewer of the display device a short description of the media content currently being experienced the season and episode number of the media content currently being experienced and the logo of the channel currently being experienced. In some examples the social TV application may provide an option for hiding or toggling visibility of the informational display . This option may allow a user more screen space for other items when the informational display is not desired.

To populate the information for the informational display the social TV application may receive the TV state information from the adjunct control interface of the MCPS . This information may be provided from the MCPS automatically such as when an adjunct device is paired with the MCPS and when the instance of media content being experienced on the display device changes. In some instances the social TV application may explicitly request the TV state information from the MCPS such as by way of a request formed into a TV control information communication sent to the MCPS from the adjunct device via the adjunct control interface .

The social TV application may further provide IPG data in the user interface B in the form of an IPG . As shown the IPG includes information corresponding to instances of media content being broadcast streamed or otherwise available for being experienced by users. As shown this information is organized according to channel but this is only one possible arrangement of IPG data . The IPG may further include detailed information for the instances of media content such as title subtitle program summary included actors start and end time for broadcast and any additional cost that may be incurred to view the instance of media content .

The user interface B may further include a viewing indication configured to inform the user that an IPG is presently being displaying by the social TV application .

The user interface B may further include channel controls configured to allow a user to request the MCPS to select different channels or media content to be displayed. For example the channel controls may include channel up and channel down buttons that when pressed are configured to cause the social TV application to send TV control information communications to the paired MCPS via the adjunct control interface requesting the MCPS to change the channel. The user interface B may also allow a user to select an instance of media content from the IPG and may send TV control information communications to the paired MCPS to request the indicated channel change. The user interface B may further include volume controls configured to allow a user to manipulate the volume level of the display device .

In addition to the display of IPG data and information related to a paired MCPS the social TV application may further be associated with a user account on a social network . The user interface B may include a social network status display . As shown in the social network status display the adjunct device is not presently logged into a social network . Accordingly social networking functionality disabled in user interface B.

In addition to being paired with an MCPS the social TV application may further be associated with a user account on a social network . For example the social TV application may be configured to receive login information such as username and password from the user and may use the login information to provide access to the user s account on a social network . The social TV application may be configured to communicate with an API of the social network by way of one or more social information requests the social information requests being configured to request information from the social network to which the user is a member. This association of the MCPS or adjunct device with an account on the social network may be stored and maintained by the data center such as by database .

Once the social TV application of the adjunct device has been associated with the account of the social network the social TV application may then use social information to augment IPG data received from the MCPS . The social information may include a listing of the user s friend list from the user s social networking account. Additionally the social information may include a mapping of friends of the associated user account on the social network to subscriber accounts of the media content system e.g. including social information received from web server and presence information for users of the social TV application e.g. including social information received from XMPP server . Accordingly the user interface C of the adjunct device may be augmented with social networking functionality to allow the user logged into the social network to determine what his or her friends are watching and message with his or her friends within the context of the social TV application .

As shown in the user interface C may include a social network status display configured to display information regarding the social network account with which the adjunct device is presently associated. When the user is logged into a social network account the social network status display may include information such as the username of the user account on the social network as well as a profile picture from the social network associated with the user.

The social TV application may receive information e.g. from web server and or XMPP server relating to which friends of the user logged into the social network are also online which instances of media content those friends are currently watching which chat rooms those friends have joined which chat rooms those friends are currently viewing and recent chat messages with those friends. Using this information the IPG may be augmented with information relating to which instances of media content friends of the logged in user are presently are watching or discussing. Such additional information may accordingly provide a user with a mechanism to socially interact in substantially real time while experiencing media content while also gaining a sense of what shows are popular with friends in his or her social graph.

One way of providing this additional information to the user is to include popularity indications in the IPG indicative of how many of the user s friends have joined a chat room for an instance of media content . For example a popularity indication A may augment the listing of The Merry Gentlemen to indicate that a chat room associated with a particular instance of media content instance has been joined by four of the user s friends. Additionally a popularity indication B may indicate that three friends are messaging regarding OXGN a popularity indication C may indicate that two friends are messaging regarding PBS and a popularity indication D may indicate that one friend is in the chat room for CBS. The IPG may also be sorted according to the number of the user s friends who are messaging i.e. chatting to allow the user of the adjunct device to easily see which chat rooms and shows are the most popular within his or her social group.

In other examples popularity indications may be used to indicate the number of friends who are presently viewing an instance of media content rather than the number of friends who have joined a chat room corresponding to the instance of media content . However freely providing information regarding the media content being viewed by users of the system may be considered an invasion of privacy by some users as those users may consider their selection of media content to be private information. Accordingly the active chat room for a friend may be used instead to indicate what content a friend is currently experiencing. As another approach a friend may be required to opt in to making available his or her information regarding media content being experienced.

A join chat control may allow the user of the adjunct device to participate in the chat room corresponding to the instance of media content presently being experienced. In some instances the chat room may include only friends of the user who have joined the chat room. Who should be considered as friends of the user may be determined based on the social graph of the social network . In other instances the chat room may include a wider range of users such as friends of the user plus friends of friends who have joined the chat room or all users of the social network who are messaging regarding the same instance of media content .

A view chat control may allow the user of the adjunct device to view a chat room corresponding to the instance of media content presently being experienced by a user of the MCPS . In some implementations a user may view a chat room without joining the room. However when the user is viewing the chat room as opposed to joining the user may be invisible to those who have joined the chat room. The user who is only viewing may not contribute messages to the chat room unless and until that user joins the chat room.

A go to chat control may allow the user to switch to a chat mode and view a list of the chat rooms he or she has already joined. Because a user may join more than one chat room the list of chat rooms may be beneficial in allowing a user to switch among the multiple chat rooms in which he or she is taking part. Further details of the chat room user interface are discussed below with respect to .

Continuing with to enable a user to readily determine which chat rooms include new messages the IPG may be augmented with new message indicator configured to illustrate to a user whether new messages are available in a chat room. The new message indicator may further indicate how many new messages have become available. These new message indicators accordingly provide the user with a notification of when there is additional content in the chat room so that the user does not need to switch around to determine whether there are any new messages. As shown in eleven new messages are available in a chat room for the The Merry Gentlemen instance of media content and seven new messages are available in a chat room for the Nature instance of media content .

As shown in user interface D the instance of media content corresponding to a dance show on the OXGN channel has been selected by the user. The IPG entry corresponding to that instance of media content has accordingly been expanded in size to include additional information about the selected instance of media content . The additional information may include profile pictures of friends who are also viewing or messaging about the selected instance of media content the most recent chat message and additional controls such as a tune TV control a view chat control and a join chat control .

The profile pictures of friends who are viewing or messaging regarding the instance of media content may be received by way of the social information communicated to the adjunct device . For example the social TV application may receive the profile pictures via an API made available by the social network . In another illustrative example the social TV application may receive profile pictures from the web server where the profile pictures were previously obtained from the social network and cached in the database . The inclusion of profile pictures in the expanded region may serve to give a quick indication to the user of who else is viewing or messaging regarding the expanded instance of media content .

The expanded item region may further include the most recent chat message from the chat room associated with the instance of media content . This most recent chat message may be received for example by way of the social information communicated from the XMPP server to the adjunct device .

The expanded item region may further include a tune TV control configured to tune the MCPS to the instance of media content a view chat control configured to allow the user to view a chat room for the instance of media content and a join chat control configured to allow the user to join the chat room for the instance of media content .

Similar to as described above with respect to the join chat control and view chat controls in the view chat control and join chat control may likewise be configured to allow the user to view and join a chat room for the instance of media content . The tune TV control may be configured to allow the user to request the paired MCPS to provide the selected instance of media content on the display device .

The friend list may be augmented with presence information relating to which friends are online or offline. For example the friend list may be sorted with online friends being indicated first followed by friends that are offline if the user has opted to show offline friends . The friend list may further be sorted such that friends indicated as being away are listed between those who are online and those who are offline. Within the online away and offline listings of friends the friend list may further be sorted using a secondary sort such as alphabetically by name or in other alternatives by channel number number of concurrent chats that friend is participating in and friends with the most recent chats. Profile pictures may further be utilized to allow for easy indication of which friends are currently experiencing or messaging about what media content . The friend list may accordingly allow a user of the adjunct device to more easily locate and interact with the user s friends in the social TV system .

The social TV application may provide an option to allow a user to select between an IPG view such as user interface E or a friend list view such as user interface F. As an example these two modes may be toggled or alternated by selection of the viewing indication .

Similar to as discussed above if a friend has provided additional messages that have not yet been viewed a new message indicator may be included in the user interface F in association with a friend in the friend list to illustrate to the user that new messages are available from that friend.

Because a friend may be involved in multiple chat rooms the expanded friend region may include a listing of each of the chat rooms that the expanded friend is viewing or has joined. The first item in this list may indicate which instance of media content the friend is currently messaging about or experiencing while the remaining entries may indicate the other chat rooms in which the friend is taking part. For each of the listed instances of media content for the friend the expanded friend region may further include tune TV controls configured to tune the MCPS to instances of media content view chat controls configured to allow the user to view a chat room for the instance of media content and join chat controls configured to allow the user to join the chat room for the instance of media content . If the user is already experiencing a particular instance of media content then no tune TV control may be provided for that particular instance of media content .

The chat room user interface H may include a listing of chat rooms . The listing of chat rooms may include all the chat rooms that the user has selected to join or view. The listing of chat rooms may provide for scrolling in instances where more chat rooms are to be displayed than reasonably fit within the allotted space. The listing of chat rooms may further include an indication of the current chat room being displayed. As shown the chat room for Supernatural on TNT is currently being displayed. While the indication is illustrates in as a triangular shape in other instances the indication of the current chat room may be indicated by shading highlighting underlining or some other indication of which chat room is the currently active room.

When a user enters the chat room user interface H by selection of the chat control the initial chat room that is selected in the listing of chat rooms may default to the instance of media content currently being tuned to by the MCPS paired with the adjunct device . In other instances the last chat room in which the user was participating may be selected by default. In still other instances where the user enters the chat room user interface H by selection of a view chat or or join chat or control the user interface H may open to the selected chat room.

Similar to the informational display configured to display information regarding what is being shown by the MCPS the chat room user interface H may likewise include information regarding the current instance of media content being discussed in the selected chat room. For example the informational display illustrated in includes details regarding the current instance of media content for the displayed the chat room for Supernatural on TNT.

The chat room user interface H may further include a listing of friends who are also in the chat room. The listing of friends may include friends of the user logged into the social network who are also online. Who should be considered as friends of the user may be determined based on the social graph received from the social network . Moreover presence information regarding which users are online may be determined through use of the XMPP server and a mapping of social networking user accounts and subscriber accounts stored by the database . In some instances the listing of friends may include a wider range of users such as all friends plus friends of friends who have joined the chat room or even all users of the social network who are messaging regarding the same instance of media content .

The chat room user interface H may further include a chat window . The chat window may include message text received from the various chat participants of the chat room. The chat window may further include indications of which messages correspond to which chat room participants as well as the timestamp of each message. To allow the user of the adjunct device to contribute to the chat the chat room user interface H may further include a keyboard control or other input control configured to allow a user to input a chat message into the current chat room. Once the user has entered a new chat message the adjunct device may send off the chat message to be applied to the chat room e.g. as social information sent to the XMPP server .

When the user of the adjunct device no longer chooses to remain in the current chat room the user may select a back to guide control to return to the IPG view of the user interface . However returning to the IPG view of the user interface may not necessarily cause the user to leave the chat rooms in which he or she is taking part. Rather the user may instead be marked as being away from the chat room so that other participants of the chat room are aware that they should not expect an immediate response.

Users who are away may be indicated as being away in the listing of friends such as by being indicated in italics or in a different color. In some instances the user interface may provide an explicit option to allow a user to choose an away or available status. In still other instances presence information regarding the users may be obtained through social information communications configured to retrieve presence information from the social network database and or an XMPP server .

In any event if the user no longer chooses to remain in the current chat room the user may select a close chat control to exit the chat room. If the user desires to rejoin the chat room the user may then find the chat room again in the IPG view of the user interface and rejoin the chat room.

As another option a user who no longer desires to remain in the current chat room may switch to another chat room. As shown in the example of the user interface H includes tiles for chat rooms for NECN CBS and PBS. The user may select one of those tiles and may accordingly switch to the selected chat room. Similar to as discussed above if a chat room includes additional messages that have not yet been viewed a new message indicator may be included in the associated tile to illustrate to the user that new messages are available in the associated chat room. The new message indicator may further indicate how many new messages have become available. For example the new message indicator for the PBS chat room indicates that there are two unread messages in that chat room. While the tiles in user interface H are named according to channel name in other examples additional or different information may be included in the tiles such as program names or episode names of the associated instances of media content being discussed.

Because switching chat rooms does not necessarily switch the instance of media content currently being experienced on display device the user interface I may further provide a tune TV control that when selected is configured to tune the MCPS paired with the adjunct device to the instance of media content associated with the chat MOM.

In some instances the system may include a user setting that provides for automatic tuning to the instance of media content whose associated chat is activated by the user. In this autotune mode the system may have a tighter coupling of the adjunct device to the display device thereby allowing the media content being displayed on the display device to match the context of the user on the adjunct device . The autotune mode may be turned off by the user to allow the user to once again change chat rooms without affecting the instance of media content being displayed by the display device .

In some instances a user may desire to invite other users to join him or her for a chat. For example the user may invite one or more of his friends to take part in a chat room for an instance of media content that is presently viewable or that may become available at an indicated time. The user interface may accordingly provide a facility for a user to select the friends to chat with and the instance of media content with which the chat may be associated. In some examples the user may set up a private chat solely between the invited participants that cannot be viewed or joined by other users of the system .

While the exemplary user interfaces A through J are each illustrated in a portrait view other orientations and designs are possible. As an example illustrates an exemplary user interface K of an adjunct device provided in a landscape view rather than a portrait view. User interface K of generally corresponds to the user interface H of but arranged with the keyboard control across the wider edge as opposed to the narrower edge. The adjunct device may orient the user interface according to the orientation of the screen of the adjunct device to ensure that the content properly faces the user while also providing user flexibility in the viewing arrangement.

In addition to the examples discussed above other combinations orientations and configurations of the IPG chat information and streaming media pane may be possible. As some examples the chat window may be included below the streaming media pane on the display device the display device may display an IPG while the adjunct device displays a streaming media pane the display device may display both an IPG and a streaming media pane while the adjunct device displays chat functionality etc.

As described the social TV application is illustrated as presenting an IPG including broadcast TV media content that is currently being aired. However the social TV application may be extended to incorporate a full IPG that also includes media content shown in the past and media content to be delivered in the future. In such an extension the social TV application may allow for chat on any show past present or future. The social TV application may also provide special treatment e.g. shading highlighting boldface etc. in the user interface for currently playing recently ended and about to start instances of media content . Such an extension may further allow persistent chat so for example users can go back to see the chat text from the airing of previous episode of a show and then continue the dialog for the next episode.

As another extension the data center may further be configured to cross reference IPG information in different regions to ensure that instances of media content are discoverable across time zones and regional channel lineups. This may be facilitated for example by storage of IPG data for different regions in the database . Like instances of media content on different channels or on at different times may be indicated in the database by like identifiers. For instance if three users of social TV applications want to chat about an on air episode of The Simpsons and the users are spread across multiple regions and time zones the data center may be configured to use the identifiers to map the same instance of media content available in different channel lineups together. Thus the system may allow the three users to discover and chat about the same show as it airs regardless of the regional channel number that may be airing the show. Furthermore the system may be further configured to inform users of the social TV application in other time zones that a show has already aired or that it will air in the future.

Another extension of the social TV application may be to integrate the social TV application with synchronized delivery of on demand media content to multiple parties. Such an extension would allow chat among multiple viewers of the same on demand show. Such an extension may further include a user interface configured to provide basic control operators such as Play Pause Stop Fast Forward Rewind etc. as well as an implementation of basic rules that govern who e.g. which party to the chat has control over the synchronized stream through these operations. For instance a user may invite one or more friends from his friend list to watch an on demand movie with him or her. The user inviting the friends may default to being operator of the stream for example or may delegate ownership of the synchronized stream to another chat participant.

Yet another extension to the social TV application may include the provisioning of audio and or video chat i.e. instead of or in addition to text based chat as described in detail above . In the case of a two person video chat this may take the form of an additional video window in the user interface of the adjunct device or display device showing the other party in the chat. In the case of a chat with more than two participants a video chat may take the form of an additional video window divided or tiled to show all the video chat participants or a separate additional video window corresponding to and displaying each additional video chat participant. In any case since the chat audio may compete with the audio of the TV program being experienced the addition of an audio video chat feature may be configured to allow for volume adjustment both for the program content and also for the chat audio video or even volume adjustment and muting per chat participant .

A variation of the extension to the social TV application for audio video chat may utilize speech recognition and translation software so that there is no conflict between the program content audio and the chat audio. In this case a chat window may still appear such as illustrated in but potentially without a pop up keyboard. Instead the user s spoken words may be captured using the speech recognition software and written into the chat text windows. Such an implementation may require use of a microphone that can capture the speaker s voice without picking up the background sound from the locally playing program content. In some cases a microphone included in or associated with the adjunct device may be utilized for capturing the voice of the user.

A still further extension to the social TV application may be to enable users to take thumbnail snapshots of the currently playing program content and paste these thumbnail snapshots into the user s chat messages. This would allow users to capture a specific moment of the show for reference in their chat text thus providing context for the discussion after the show has moved on.

Nevertheless through use of the adjunct device as a companion device and having access to a user s social graph from a social network an enhanced television system such as the system described above may transform television viewing into a new in the moment social experience.

In block the social TV application pairs the adjunct device with an MCPS . For example a user interface provided by the social TV application may include an MCPS menu that includes a listing of MCPSs that are available for pairing with the adjunct device . The user may select an MCPS from the MCPS menu to pair the adjunct device with that MCPS . If the MCPS the user desires to pair with is not indicated in the MCPS menu the user may press the add control to enter in details of a new MCPS to add to the list such as the name of the MCPS and an identifier and or passcode of the MCPS to allow for pairing of the adjunct device with the MCPS . In some examples the social TV application may be configured to auto discover MCPSs that are within range. If the adjunct device is already paired with an MCPS the user may also use the MCPS menu to change the pairing of the adjunct device to be with another MCPS .

In block the social TV application associates the adjunct device with a social network . For example the social TV application may be configured to receive login information such as username and password from the user and may use the login information to provide access to the user s information on a social network including the user s social graph. The mapping of users of the social network with users of the MCPSs may further be maintained in the database to facilitate mapping of users of the social network to subscribers of the media content provider .

In block the social TV application receives social information from the social network . For example the social TV application may communicate with an API of the social network configured to receive and respond to requests for social information . Using the social graph received from the social network and the mapping of users of the social network with users of the MCPSs maintained in the database the social TV application may relate which users of the social network are experiencing what media content . The social TV application may further receive social information from an XMPP server including which friends of the user logged into the social network are also online which chat rooms those friends have joined which chat rooms those friends are viewing and recent chat messages to and from those friends.

In block the social TV application receives IPG data . For example the social TV application may receive IPG data including information corresponding to instances of media content being broadcast streamed or otherwise available for being experienced by users such as title subtitle program summary included actors start and end time for broadcast and any additional cost that may be incurred to view the instance of media content . The social TV application may further receive information regarding the paired MCPS such as what instance of media content is presently being shown by the MCPS .

In block the social TV application augments the IPG data with social information . Using the social information the IPG may be augmented with information relating to which instances of media content friends of the logged in user are presently are watching or discussing.

In block the social TV application displays the IPG data augmented by the social information . For example the social TV application may display an IPG augmented to include popularity indications indicative of how many of the user s friends have joined a chat room for an instance of media content . As another example the social TV application may display an IPG augmented to include new message indicator to provide the user with a notification of when there is additional content in the chat room. The social TV application may further display a friend list user interface indicating which friends are online and what instances of media content those friends are messaging about or watching. The IPG may further be augmented to provide chat room functionality to allow the user of the adjunct device to chat with his or her friends in chat rooms associated with the instances of media content . Next the process ends.

With regard to the processes systems methods heuristics etc. described herein it should be understood that although the steps of such processes etc. have been described as occurring according to a certain ordered sequence such processes could be practiced with the described steps performed in an order other than the order described herein. It further should be understood that certain steps could be performed simultaneously that other steps could be added or that certain steps described herein could be omitted. In other words the descriptions of processes herein are provided for the purpose of illustrating certain embodiments and should in no way be construed so as to limit the claims.

Accordingly it is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many embodiments and applications other than the examples provided would be apparent upon reading the above description. The scope should be determined not with reference to the above description but should instead be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is anticipated and intended that future developments will occur in the technologies discussed herein and that the disclosed systems and methods will be incorporated into such future embodiments. In sum it should be understood that the disclosure is capable of modification and variation.

All terms used in the claims are intended to be given their broadest reasonable constructions and their ordinary meanings as understood by those knowledgeable in the technologies described herein unless an explicit indication to the contrary in made herein. In particular use of the singular articles such as a the said etc. should be read to recite one or more of the indicated elements unless a claim recites an explicit limitation to the contrary.

