---

title: Connecting patients with emergency/urgent health care
abstract: A computer network-based service provides search capabilities and mechanisms for connecting potential patients with emergency, urgent, and convenient care facilities. Patients make informed decisions regarding their treatment options by reviewing search results regarding facility wait times, geographic proximities of facilities, quality ratings of facilities for particular specialties, etc. Upon selecting a facility, patients may electronically transmit a notification to the facility indicating their medical condition(s) and estimated arrival time. The facility may approve or deny the treatment request by sending an electronic response. The facility may also request further information to triage the patient before his/her actual arrival and/or may provide instructions to assist the patient while en route. Navigation satellite systems may identify the patient's location for processing search requests and determining the proximity of facilities. Further, contact mechanisms, e.g., phone numbers, for contacting facilities directly may be accessed from the search service and tracked.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09171342&OS=09171342&RS=09171342
owner: Healthgrades Operating Company, Inc.
number: 09171342
owner_city: Denver
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110111
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 613 822 filed on Nov. 6 2009 by Inventor John M. Neal and entitled PATIENT DIRECT CONNECT. The entirety of the aforementioned application is incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document may contain material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice shall apply to this document Copyright.COPYRGT. 2010 Health Grades Inc.

A large percentage of medical conditions require urgent or emergency care. While patients in need of urgent or emergency care may need immediate assistance it is important to still allow such patients to make informed decisions in selecting their medical care provider e.g. hospital emergency room urgent care facility physician etc. Yet a great deal of information to enable such decision making is not available or at least not readily available to potential patients. While increasing numbers of patients are also opting for convenient care facilities or clinics for treatment of medical conditions requiring non emergency or non urgent care information to enable potential patients to make informed decisions in selecting a particular convenient care facility has also been limited or at least not readily available. Such problems are exacerbated in that potential patients often select such facilities whether emergency urgent or convenient care in rushed situations and or while en route to a facility of a particular type e.g. emergency room.

Although specific problems have been addressed in this Background this disclosure is not intended in any way to be limited to solving those specific problems.

Embodiments generally relate to providing potential patients or any type of user the content and tools to enable them to make informed decisions regarding their selections of emergency urgent and or convenient care facilities. Potential patients are able to access information and data regarding emergency urgent and convenient care over a computer network. In embodiments such information is provided in response to searches conducted by potential patients for facilities satisfying specific criteria. In other embodiments such information is provided in response to a search for a particular facility. Such information and data includes for example current wait times at particular facilities physical distance to such facilities from a specific location specialties and quality award ratings of such facilities physicians and or other treating personnel at such facilities etc. Further where the search results include multiple facilities comparisons of such information and data between facilities can also be provided according to embodiments. For example the search results may be displayed to a user in order of the shortest wait time to the longest wait time. In another embodiment the search results may be displayed in order of the closest geographic location to the user s current location to the furthest geographic location from the user. In an embodiment a user s location is automatically provided in the search by using navigation satellite technology such as the Global Positioning System GPS . In yet another embodiment search results may be displayed in such order as to highlight or otherwise give preferential treatment to certain facilities which are affiliated with the company providing the search capabilities and results. For example such service for obtaining such information may be obtained at the Web site s provided by Health Grades Inc. Such Web site s include for example www.healthgrades.com.

In additional embodiments after selecting a particular facility a potential patient sends an electronic notification to the facility informing the facility of the user s desired imminent arrival. The notification includes in embodiments a description of the patient s condition and identifying information. Such information allows the user to perform a pre check in process and save time when the user actually arrives at the facility. The notification also allows the facility to determine whether or not it has the resources to accept the patient. In processing the notification the facility may determine in embodiments that it cannot provide service to the potential patient in a timely manner and may send the user a denial of service response to the notification. In other embodiments the facility determines that it has the resources to accept the potential patient and sends a confirmation to the patient. Such confirmation comprises directions in embodiments. In embodiments such confirmation also comprises instructions for the potential patient such as to keep an injured limb elevated for example. In other embodiments the confirmation also requests further information of the potential patient. Such further information enables the facility to perform a triage or quasi triage to determine the priority of treatment for patients based on the degree of severity of the patients respective medical conditions. By enabling such upfront contact between potential patients and care facilities time is saved and the efficiency of the care giving process is optimized.

In other embodiments after selecting a particular care facility the patient directly contacts the facility by using a contact mechanism provided by the search service such as a unique phone number electronic mail email address and or Short Message Service SMS address. Such phone number or email address is created such as to allow the tracking of patients who choose to contact the facility directly after obtaining search results. In still other embodiments a user may use the service to obtain contact information for consulting a nurse or other medical practitioner for answering questions about or otherwise discussing the potential patient s medical condition.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that is further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

This disclosure will now more fully describe example embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings in which specific embodiments are shown. Other aspects may however be embodied in many different forms and the inclusion of specific embodiments in this disclosure should not be construed as limiting such aspects to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather the embodiments depicted in the drawings are included to provide a disclosure that is thorough and complete and which fully conveys the intended scope to those skilled in the art. Dashed lines may be used to show optional components or operations.

Embodiments generally relate to connecting potential patients with emergency care urgent care and or convenient care facilities. A company provides on line healthcare facility search services to potential patients and or users to connect potential patients with the emergency urgent and or convenient care facility which best meets their needs or desires for medical treatment. According to embodiments the company providing the search services manages a Web site s with one or more Web pages for accessing transmitting and receiving information regarding healthcare facilities including emergency urgent and or convenient care facilities for example to enable users and or potential patients to make informed decisions regarding their healthcare treatment facility needs. Users and potential patients are used interchangeably herein. For example while potential patients may access the company Web site to obtain information regarding medical treatment facilities a user may access the company Web site to assist a potential patient who may or may not be able to use the Web site himself herself such as for example a child or incapacitated person. In further embodiments the Web site may be mobile enabled such that it acts as a nexus for all Internet and mobile consumers. In such embodiments the Web site is capable of receiving requests from both mobile users e.g. users accessing the Web site via a mobile phone smartphone PDA etc. and requests from standard Internet users e.g. users accessing the Web site via a computer connected to the Internet. Furthermore the Web site may be capable of returning responses in multiple different formats depending on the device making the additional request e.g. a response formatted for a mobile device or a response formatted for a browser on a computer .

In embodiments herein emergency care may refer to treatment received at an emergency room. An emergency room ER which is also known as an emergency department ED is a dedicated department in a hospital or freestanding healthcare facility that provides specialized 24 7 treatment of medical emergencies. Medical emergencies require immediate treatment and include diseases and conditions that threaten life limb or vision such as for example chest pain cardiopulmonary arrest trauma stroke eye injuries etc. An urgent care facility or center also known as an immediate care center is a healthcare facility providing convenient treatment of minor to moderate diseases and conditions that need prompt medical care but do not require a visit to the emergency room. Urgent care centers provide treatment for such conditions as for example minor to moderate lacerations simple bone fractures muscle strains sprains and contusions cysts or boils minor dehydration strep throat ear infections flu influenza etc. On the other hand a convenient care facility or clinic also known as a retail health clinic is a healthcare facility providing convenient routine healthcare and treatment of minor diseases and conditions. Retail health clinics generally provide treatment to patients two years of age and older for such conditions as for example upper respiratory infection uncomplicated flu influenza minor rashes and skin conditions pink eye pregnancy testing muscle strains sprains and contusions etc. Convenient care facilities also provide for example routine immunizations such as flu shots hepatitis vaccines MMR Measles Mumps and Rubella vaccines school and sports physicals preventative health screenings such as cholesterol hypertension and diabetes tests etc. While specific conditions and descriptions have been described with respect to each type of facility e.g. emergency convenient care and urgent care these conditions and descriptions may apply to one or more facilities described above and overlapping of descriptions and medical conditions treated by the facilities may exist. The names and descriptions provided above are offered as non limiting examples.

According to embodiments while the company providing on line healthcare facility search services provides information and data to allow potential patients and or users to make informed decisions regarding their healthcare facility needs the on line service also provides a phone number s email address and or IM Instant Messaging address for example for potential patients and or users to contact a medical practitioner to obtain answers to any questions they may have regarding their particular medical condition. Answers to such questions may enable a potential patient to determine whether to seek treatment at an emergency room versus an urgent care facility versus a convenient care facility for example. An example of such a medical practitioner contact is the Consult a Nurse service. However any type or name of such medical practitioner contact service may be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Users and or potential patients may consult such a medical practitioner by phone or other contact means at any time during the search notification process using phone numbers or other contact means displayed by Web pages of the Web site managed by the company providing on line healthcare facility search services.

In embodiments users are able to enter search criteria for finding emergency urgent and or convenient care facilities by shortest wait times closest physical proximity highest quality ratings etc. In determining proximity information users may either provide their current location or use data provided by a navigation satellite system to indicate the exact geographic coordinates of the user s location. In other embodiments affiliated users of a company providing the search services for emergency urgent and or convenient care may log in or otherwise indicate their member status and obtain quicker access to entering search criteria by having their personal information automatically populated in search forms for example. Upon processing the search criteria search results are provided to the potential users and or patients. In receiving search results users and or potential patients can make informed decisions regarding their choice of healthcare facility for emergency urgent and or convenient care for example.

In embodiments a user and or potential patient may send an electronic notification of his her arrival at a particular emergency urgent and or convenient care facility. In other embodiments the potential patient and or user contacts a desired facility directly using a phone number email address and or SMS address for example received from a Web page displaying search results for the particular healthcare facilities matching the search criteria. The particular phone number email address and or SMS address provided allows the facility and or company providing on line healthcare facility search services to track the user s and or potential patient s use of the company Web site and or search results for finding the facility.

In embodiments where a user and or potential patient sends an electronic notification of expected arrival such notification includes an expected arrival time according to embodiments. The notification also includes an indication of the potential patient s particular medical condition requiring care in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Upon receiving the electronic notification the care facility determines whether it can accept the potential patient. Factors influencing the facility s decision include availability of physicians availability of treatment rooms and or equipment etc. The care facility then transmits its reply e.g. confirmation or denial of the patient s request to a server s used by the company. The company then forwards the reply to the potential patient and or user. In sending a confirmation the facility may also request additional information to allow it to triage the patient before his her arrival. The patient and or user may therefore reply to such request for additional information and send such information through the server s used by the company to the hospital to begin the triage process. Such ability to begin triaging a patient while he she is en route to the facility results in increased efficiency and response times as well as overall improved medical care.

In embodiments the confirmation may include additional information related to the facility. For example the confirmation may include directions to facility. The confirmation and or additional information may be sent to the phone number email address and or SMS address used to make the initial request. In embodiments the user making the request may provide a different phone number email address and SMS address and or any other means of contact that the confirmation and or additional information should be returned to. In further embodiments the user may provided multiple phone numbers email addresses SMS addresses etc. in which case the confirmation information and or additional information may be sent to the multiple contract numbers and or addresses provided. For example a patient checking into the hospital may also provide an email address phone number etc. of a family member and specify that confirmation information and or additional information e.g. driving directions to the facility facility contact information etc may be sent to the multiple contact numbers and or addresses provided. In such embodiments the company then provides this additional information to the patient s family member.

An example logical environment or system for providing on line search services for connecting potential patients with emergency urgent and or convenient care facilities is shown in in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. User and or potential patient uses client computer to access a company server across network to search for emergency urgent care and or convenient care facilities. In another embodiment user and or potential patient accesses a company server over network from a mobile phone . In yet another embodiment user and or potential patient accesses a company server over network from mobile device such as a personal digital assistant PDA . While depicts servers and any number of servers may be used as shown by ellipses and in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. In embodiments servers described herein are owned leased managed part of cloud computing services hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software operable to execute the functions described herein.

According to embodiments upon receiving a search request across network company server processes such search request by accessing information and data stored in database for example. Such data and information is accessed over network in embodiments. For example database stores membership information profiles facility ratings facility reports etc. In processing a search request company server accesses a facility server over network in accordance with embodiments. Facility server provides for example current wait times at the particular facility requests for further patient information confirmations or denials of patient notification requests etc. In further embodiments the Facility server provides additional information related to the facility such as but not limited to services offered by the facility awards earned professional and staffing information related news articles certifications or any other type of Facility related information that may be of interest to the user patient. In accessing and relaying such information facility server communicates with client computer over network in embodiments. For example a facility employee enters or updates current wait times at client computer using an input device. In an embodiment this information or data is transmitted to server for processing further storing and relaying to company server . In another embodiment server may directly populate forms and or other information stored in database through communications between server and for example and database s . While embodiments provide for a single facility server other embodiments provide for multiple facility servers as shown by ellipses and facility server . These facility servers may be associated with the same facility such as State Hospital or may be associated with a plurality of different facilities such as a facility server associated with State Hospital and another facility server associated with University Hospital in accordance with embodiments. Any number and type of servers may be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Further while the servers and in depict attached databases other embodiments provide for each server having access to a detached database or to multiple and separate detached databases.

Embodiments also provide for the use of a location system as depicted in for determining a user s and or potential patient s current location such as for determining proximity of facilities to the potential patient etc. For example navigation satellite systems such as the Global Positioning System GPS provide a user or potential patient s current geographic or physical location information such as in the form of real time latitude longitude geographic coordinates to mobile device and or mobile phone according to embodiments. Devices and then transmit the received real time coordinates over network to server for example. In an embodiment server then compares the received coordinates with stored address information such as in a database s to determine the correlating address for the received coordinates. In another embodiment an intermediary server or other server receives the coordinates and correlates them with an address. Where multiple addresses correlate with the received coordinates the multiple addresses are transmitted over network to devices and or . In embodiments the user and or potential patient may then determine the correct address from a list of addresses matching the coordinates. In another embodiment a receiver receives location information data or coordinates from location system and communicates these coordinates to client computer to determine location information of client computer using a location application. In other embodiments the user s and or potential patient s current location information is determined through triangulation from a cellular network.

In embodiments such information or data regarding the user s or potential patient s current location information is used to automatically populate a form for sending a search request to company server for example for facility information matching specific search criteria. In yet other embodiments such information and or data is sent directly to company server for processing to determine the facilities within the closest proximity of the potential patient or user . Such proximity results may be displayed to a user and or potential patient before the user and or potential patient enters specific search criteria in embodiments. Instead in such embodiments such proximity results may be provided as soon as the user and or potential patient indicates that he she would like information regarding emergency urgent care and or convenient care facilities.

Logical environment is not limited to any particular implementation and instead embodies any computing environment upon which the functionality of the environment described herein may be practiced. For example any type of client computer understood by those of ordinary skill in the art may be used in accordance with embodiments. Further networks and although shown as individual single networks may be any types of networks conventionally understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. In accordance with an embodiment the network may be the global network e.g. the Internet or World Wide Web i.e. Web for short . It may also be a local area network e.g. intranet or a wide area network. In accordance with embodiments communications over networks and occur according to one or more standard packet based formats e.g. H.323 IP Ethernet and or ATM.

Further any conceivable environment or system as understood by those of ordinary skill in the art may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. is offered as an example only for purposes of understanding the teachings of the embodiments disclosed herein. For example shows company server and and facility server and . However embodiments also cover any type of server separate servers server farm or other message server. Further yet shows client computer . However any type of small computer device may be used as is understood by those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the embodiments disclosed herein. Although only one client computer is shown for example another embodiment provides for multiple small computer devices to communicate with company server . In an embodiment each small computer device communicates with the network or in other embodiments multiple and separate networks communicate with the small computer devices. In yet another embodiment each small computer device communicates with a separate network. In another embodiment an application programming interface API is used to facilitate connections between clients such as client computer mobile phone mobile device etc. and the company server . The API may be use to facilitate communication between the client devices and the company and or facility servers by providing the mobile devices access to data and or functional aspects of the company server . In further embodiments the API may provide the company server additional access to information on the client devices such as but not limited to the location of the client device. Indeed environment or system represents a valid way of practicing embodiments disclosed herein but is in no way intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure. Further the example network environment may be considered in terms of the specific components described e.g. company server client computer etc. or alternatively may be considered in terms of the analogous modules corresponding to such units.

While depicts an example logical environment or system for providing on line search services for connecting potential patients with emergency urgent and or convenient care facilities illustrates an example user interface UI of a Web page as retrieved in the logical representation of the environment or system of for example with options for selecting to search for hospitals physicians nursing homes and emergency urgent convenient care facilities in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. User interface is accessed in embodiments by providing the Uniform Resource Locator URL or address of the Web page of the company providing the healthcare facility search services. For example UI shows the Web address www.healthgrades.com for the HealthGrades Web site. Upon entering the home page of the company Web site UI depicts an introductory or welcome display indicating the services offered by the Web site according to embodiments. A user and or potential patient determines how he she would like to search regarding their healthcare needs such as by doctor ratings hospital ratings and or nursing home ratings . Such search capabilities are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 752 060 entitled Internet System for Connecting Healthcare Providers and Patients issued on Jul. 6 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all that it teaches.

User interface also offers the user and or potential patient the option to access information regarding emergency urgent and or convenient care facilities in accordance with embodiments. The user and or potential patient clicks on a Search button to access such information in embodiments. In alternative embodiments the user and or potential patient accesses such information by selecting Emergency Urgent or Convenient . For example depicts the user and or potential patient having moved the mouse pointer over Emergency to select information on emergency care facilities.

Embodiments also provide for UT to provide a reminder to phone 9 1 1 in case of an emergency requiring immediate assistance. Further UI allows a user and or potential patient to search for information on a particular physician such as through clicking on the Find a Doctor selector . User interface also includes an advertisement or multiple advertisements on the Web page .

User interface is offered for purposes of illustration only. Any type of user interface can be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further the specific buttons selectors text headings etc. are offered by way of example only for purposes of illustration. Any type and arrangement of text buttons selectors and or other features and functions may be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further while user interface shows an indicator of Microsoft Internet Explorer and WWW in the example depicted these are offered for purposes of illustration only. For example an intranet and or other type of network may be used in accordance with other embodiments.

Turning to user interface illustrates an example user interface UI of a Web page as retrieved in response to selecting the Search button of for accessing information on emergency urgent care and or convenient care facilities in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. For example URL indicates the selection of a search for a healthcare facility as depicted by www.healthgrades.com care . Web page shows that information and or searches may be obtained for emergency urgent and or convenient care facilities . An emergency room section provides a description of emergency room services and types of conditions applicable to emergency room treatment such as for example chest pain trauma and or other conditions . A user and or potential patient may search for particular emergency room facilities matching specified search criteria by clicking on the Search for ERs button to begin a search according to embodiments.

In embodiments Web page also depicts a section on Urgent Care including a description of such facility. In further embodiments Web page also lists medical conditions commonly treated at such facility such as for example minor moderate cuts simple bone fractures and or other conditions . A user and or potential patient may also search for an urgent care facility by clicking on the Search for Urgent Care button and then entering search criteria when prompted to do so.

Additionally Web page provides a section on Convenient Care . This section includes a description of such type of care according to embodiments. In further embodiments Web page also lists commonly treated medical conditions at convenient care facilities including for example minor skin conditions pink eye and or other conditions . A user and or potential patient may also search for a convenient care facility by clicking on the Search for Convenient Care button .

In embodiments Web page provides a reminder to phone 9 1 1 if the potential patient s condition requires immediate treatment care. In other embodiments Web page also provides alternative ways to connect potential patients with a healthcare facility such as through display . Display provides the ability to find out the closest ER with the fastest wait time by clicking on a See ER Wait Times button as disclosed in embodiments herein. In additional embodiments a phone number or other contact means to consult a medical practitioner such as through the Consult A Nurse service for example is provided on Web page to assist users and or potential patients in directly contacting a medical practitioner for questions regarding healthcare facility information and treatment options.

While Web page depicts display for finding out the closest ER with the fastest wait time and or directly contacting a medical practitioner illustrate example displays and which may be used instead of display in addition thereto or in any combination thereof. For example display illustrates means to contact a medical practitioner through a provided phone number . As an example display displays the phone number for contacting the Consult A Nurse service. In other embodiments not shown contact means other than a phone number may be provided for contacting a medical practitioner such as an email address SMS address etc. While depicts the contact information for a medical practitioner shows display for finding the closest emergency room with the fastest wait time . A user may click on the See ER Wait Times button to search for ER wait times in accordance with embodiments.

User interface including displays and for example are offered for purposes of illustration only. Any type of user interface can be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further the specific buttons selectors text headings etc. are offered by way of example only for purposes of illustration. Any type and arrangement of text buttons selectors and or other features and functions may be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further any number of sections may be used in which greater than or fewer than the number of sections depicted may be used in embodiments. For example the emergency room urgent care and convenient care facility sections may each be provided on separate Web pages and accessed by separate URLs specific to each type of facility in accordance with embodiments. In other embodiments any combination or sub combination of the sections shown in may be used. As an example Web page may depict Emergency Room section and Urgent Care section but not include the Convenient Care section . Further yet while user interface shows an indicator of Microsoft Internet Explorer and WWW in the example depicted these are offered for purposes of illustration only. For example an intranet and or other type of network may be used in accordance with other embodiments.

Upon selecting to search for Emergency Rooms such as by selecting the Search for ERs button in illustrates an example UI for providing search criteria for an emergency room in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. illustrates that a search for emergency rooms has been selected as shown by URL address of for example www.healthgrades.com emergency care search. Web page displays Emergency Rooms as the search subject and a user and or potential patient is able to search by state and city by selecting a state from a list of states . Toggle bar allows more states to be viewed for selection purposes in which more states are available for selection as shown by ellipses . depicts a user and or potential patient as selecting Arizona as shown by the mouse pointer hovering over the state of Arizona for example. Next a user and or potential patient selects a city for the search for emergency rooms. In embodiments all cities are listed . In other embodiments cities specific to the state selected at are displayed at city selection area . For example Arizona cities are displayed for selection where the state of Arizona is selected in accordance with embodiments. A toggle bar may also be used to view additional cities available for selection as shown by ellipses . Again a reminder to phone 9 1 1 in case of an immediate need for medical attention is displayed in embodiments.

While illustrates a Web page for selecting an emergency room by state and city depicts Web page for entering further search criteria in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Web page may be displayed for entering further search criteria following the selection of a state and city in in embodiments. In other embodiments is the only Web page displayed for entering search criteria for a specific search request by a user and or potential patient. In yet other embodiments is one of a plurality of Web pages displayed for entering search criteria for a particular search request. In an embodiment Web page is accessed by completing the URL address for the specific page as shown by the sample URL address of www.healthgrades.com emergency care searchentry depicted in . In another embodiment Web page is accessed by selecting to search for emergency rooms for example. Web page indicates that a user and or potential patient may search for emergency rooms using this Web page. If the user and or potential patient is affiliated with the company providing the healthcare facility search services such as by being a member of the service the user and or potential patient may indicate their member status by clicking on Member button and then providing log in information or other identifying information. Next criteria for searching for emergency rooms is entered by entering text into the text entry boxes for Name Phone Location Residence Address Problem Condition and or any other fields requesting information as shown by ellipses and toggle bar for displaying any additional areas for text entry. Web page also allows a user and or potential patient to rank results by the criteria important to the user and or potential patient . For example a user and or potential patient may decide to rank shortest wait time as most important as compared to proximity or quality awards recipients . The user and or potential patient may then decide to rank proximity as next important as compared to shortest wait time and quality awards . Next the user and or potential patient may choose to rank quality awards as least important compared to proximity and shortest wait time . Embodiments also provide for Web page to offer an additional reminder for the user and or potential patient to dial 9 1 1 for immediate care if necessary. Following the entry of the above identified search criteria the user and or potential patient selects or clicks on the Submit button to submit the search criteria for processing.

In embodiments where a user and or potential patient indicates that they are a member of the company providing the healthcare facility search services Web page shows a message indicating the return of the member . Further in embodiments certain areas of the form are automatically populated with the member information. For example field now has the name of the member entered into it as John A. Smith for example with the phone number on record for Mr. Smith. The member s residence address is also automatically populated with the member s address stored in a database and retrieved by a server processing the membership information and form processing. The current address location of Mr. Smith is also shown as having been automatically populated. Such location information may be automatically populated in embodiments for example where a navigation satellite system is used to provide the user s current location coordinates. These coordinates are then sent for processing and an address matching the coordinates may be retrieved from a database s according to embodiments. Where more than one address matches the coordinates the location information text entry box has up and down arrows to allow the user to choose the correct address for identifying location information . Such current location information may be used by the search engine in processing the request to determine the facility within closest proximity of the user and or potential patient.

The user interfaces depicted in B and C are offered for purposes of illustration only. Any type of user interface can be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further the specific buttons selectors arrows text etc. are offered by way of example only for purposes of illustration. Any type and arrangement of text buttons selectors headings and or other features and functions may be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further any number of sections may be used in which greater than or fewer than the number of sections depicted may be used in embodiments. Any combination or sub combination of the sections shown in B and C may be used and the sections may be rearranged in any order or layout. In addition while B and C depict searches for emergency rooms analogous Web pages may be used for searches for urgent care facilities and convenient care facilities. Further yet while user interfaces and show an indicator of Microsoft Internet Explorer and WWW in the example depicted these are offered for purposes of illustration only. For example an intranet and or other type of network may be used in accordance with other embodiments.

While B and C illustrate Web pages for entering or automatically populating search criteria for a search request for a healthcare facility depicts an example search results Web page in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. This search results Web page may be automatically received at a client computer in response to submitting a search request in embodiments. In other embodiments a user and or potential patient may enter a URL address for retrieving the results Web page. By way of example only Web page shows a URL address of www.healthgrades.com emergency care results. The emergency room search results are provided to the user and or potential patient with a reminder to dial 9 1 1 if the potential patient requires immediate assistance according to embodiments. Based on the search criteria provided Web page displays search results showing first the emergency room facilities in order of the shortest wait times . For example the ER at Columbia Hospital is ranked first because it has the shortest wait time of less than ten 10 minutes . The next shortest wait time is listed second and the third shortest wait time is listed third. In embodiments where the search results list more than the number of facilities in view toggle bar may be used to view additional results.

Next the search results are ranked in terms of closest proximity to the user s and or potential patient s current location in which the emergency room at Hospital JKL for example purposes only is listed first as having the shortest distance followed by the emergency room with the next shortest distance and finally the third emergency room with the next shortest distance . Finally the results are provided to the user according to the ratings of the facilities in terms of quality awards received. For example the emergency room at Hospital LMN for example purposes only is listed first with an A rating followed by the emergency room with the next highest rating and followed next by the emergency room with the next highest rating . With the search results of provided to the user and or potential patient the user and or potential patient may make an informed decision regarding his her choice of emergency room facility. The user and or potential patient may use the search results Web page to obtain more information on a particular facility listed and or select a particular facility to submit a notification of requesting admittance to.

The user interface depicted in is offered for purposes of illustration only. Any type of user interface can be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further the specific buttons selectors arrows text headings etc. are offered by way of example only for purposes of illustration. Any type and arrangement of text buttons selectors and or other features and functions may be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further any number of sections may be used in which greater than or fewer than the number of sections depicted may be used in embodiments. Any combination or sub combination of the sections shown in may be used and the sections may be rearranged in any order or layout. Further the search results may be displayed in multiple search results Web pages in accordance with other embodiments such as a Web page for search results for shortest wait times and another Web page for search results for closest proximity etc. In addition while depicts search results for emergency rooms analogous Web pages may be used for search results for urgent care facilities and convenient care facilities. Further yet while user interface shows an indicator of Microsoft Internet Explorer and WWW in the example depicted these are offered for purposes of illustration only. For example an intranet and or other type of network may be used in accordance with other embodiments.

Turning to notification form is presented in embodiments to a user and or potential patient for enabling the user and or potential patient to send a request to confirm the potential patient s expected arrival at the particular facility according to embodiments. Notification form is presented in embodiments to a user and or potential patient in response to the user s and or potential patient s selection of the particular facility such as by clicking on select in for example. The particular facility selected is displayed on notification form according to embodiments to make sure the user and or potential patient is submitting the form for the desired facility. In response to a selection Hospital Notification form is displayed in which the personal information of the potential patient is requested including for example the patient s first name last name address and phone number . In embodiments notification form also allows the user and or potential patient to indicate the expected arrival time such as checking a box for arriving in 15 minutes 30 minutes or 1 hour or more for example. Upon completing notification form the user and or potential patient may select the Submit button . While notification form allows the user and or potential patient to indicate his her intended arrival at the particular facility reminder reminds the user and or potential patient that the request does not guarantee availability. Rather the notification form is sent to the facility for processing and response according to embodiments.

The form depicted in is offered for purposes of illustration only. Any type of form can be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further the specific buttons selectors text entry boxes text headings etc. are offered by way of example only for purposes of illustration. Any type and arrangement of text checkboxes buttons selectors text entry boxes and or other features and functions may be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further any number of requests for information may be used in which greater than or fewer than the number of text entry boxes and or checkboxes depicted may be used in embodiments. Any combination or sub combination of the sections text entry boxes etc. shown in may be used and the sections text entry boxes etc. may be rearranged in any order or layout. Further the notification form may be displayed in a plurality of pages in accordance with other embodiments such as a page for personal information and another page for expected arrival time etc. In addition while depicts a Hospital notification it is to be understood that a notification form may be used for any type of healthcare facility in accordance with embodiments.

While illustrates a hospital notification form to indicate a potential patient s expected arrival depict a confirmation of arrival response and a denial of arrival response according to embodiments. Starting with confirmation of arrival response confirms the facility s ability to accept the potential patient as a patient for treatment . In an embodiment the confirmation of the expected arrival time is also given. A reminder to phone 9 1 1 for any needed immediate assistance is also listed in accordance with embodiments. Further a list of instructions is provided for the potential patient including for example check in instructions etc. Embodiments also provide for driving directions to be provided in which sample driving directions are displayed in response . Care instructions while en route to the facility are also provided in accordance with embodiments. For example care instructions are given based on the information received by the facility in which sample instructions are listed . To protect the facility from liability associated with such care instructions a disclaimer is provided in an embodiment.

Turning to a denial of arrival response is sent to the user and or potential patient in embodiments where the selected facility is not able to admit the potential patient . In embodiments the facility indicates it has no current availability to admit the potential patient . In further embodiments response indicates to dial 9 1 1 if immediate assistance is required or to check in at the particular emergency room if the potential patient is not able to get to or be seen by any other emergency room . Driving directions are included in embodiments such as where the emergency room indicates that the potential patient may be admitted if no other ERs are available or within reach . According to further embodiments other area emergency rooms are listed to assist the potential patient or user in finding another emergency room such as from list . A disclaimer is also provided in an embodiment.

While illustrates a confirmation of arrival response from the selected facility depicts a confirmation of arrival response with a request for further information in accordance with embodiments. Response indicates both a confirmation of the facility s ability to accept the potential patient as well as provides a request for information. Such further information may be used for triage purposes by the facility according to embodiments. Response form confirms the patient s expected arrival time as well as provides instructions in embodiments. Driving directions such as example directions may also be provided. In further embodiments a request for information is made. For example the request may ask further questions regarding the potential patient s medical condition such as for example if the patient is having difficulty breathing experiencing chest or arm pain or any other medical questions . These medical conditions are offered for purposes of illustration only. A disclaimer is also provided in embodiments. To reply to the questions the user and or potential patient may click on or otherwise select the Reply button . In an embodiment upon selecting the Reply button a form appears not shown allowing the user and or potential patient to answer the questions through for example checking checkboxes selecting radio buttons entering text in text entry boxes etc. In another embodiment the user and or potential patient may reply to the questions directly on the response form and then select a Submit button for example to submit the responses for processing. By providing answers to the facility s further questions the facility may use the information to triage the patient before his her arrival. Such ability promotes efficiency and leads to overall improved care by accelerating the procedures for treating patients.

The response forms depicted in B and are offered for purposes of illustration only. Any type of form can be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further the specific sections headings etc. are offered by way of example only for purposes of illustration. Any type and arrangement of headings sections text content etc. may be used in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Further any type of content may be used in embodiments and any combination or sub combination of the sections headings content text etc. may be used and rearranged in any order or layout. Further each of the confirmation and denial responses may be displayed in a plurality of pages in accordance with other embodiments such as having multiple pages confirming arrival with content related thereto and or multiple pages denying arrival with content related thereto. In addition while B and depict responses for a particular hospital the names listed are for example purposes only and it is to be understood that a notification form response may be provided for any type of healthcare facility in accordance with embodiments.

The interactions of the various functionalities depicted in the user interfaces and forms described above are further illustrated in the operational steps depicted in B and C in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. START operation is initiated and process proceeds to request healthcare provider information for a care facility such as an emergency room convenient care facility and or urgent care facility. While the applicable steps in depict Emergency Urgent Care it is to be understood that any type of care facility is intended to be covered by these operational steps including convenient care facilities for example. Such a request for healthcare provider information may be made by a user and or potential patient for example from a client computer mobile device mobile phone etc. Next healthcare provider information for care facilities is received . Such information for example may include information regarding descriptions of each of the types of facilities the types of medical conditions treated by each of the facilities etc. Following step process may optionally as shown by dashed lines first proceed to member log in query in which it is determined whether the user and or potential patient has indicated their status as a member of the company providing the healthcare facility search services. If query determines that the user and or potential patient is a member process proceeds YES to enter member information in which the user and or potential patient is prompted to enter information identifying himself herself as a member. If query determines that the user and or potential patient is not a member process proceeds NO to query to determine whether the user and or potential patient would like to become a member. Where the user and or potential patient does not desire to become a member process proceeds NO to enter information as a non member step in which the user and or potential member provides their name and or other information. Where the user and or potential patient desires to become a member process proceeds YES to enter information to become a member . Where the user and or potential patient is in a hurry embodiments provide for abbreviated information to be entered to become a member with the option to add supplemental information at a later time. Following these steps process may optionally as shown by dashed liens proceed to query in which the user and or potential patient may decide to directly consult a medical practitioner such as through the Consult A Nurse service for example. Where the user and or potential patient desires to consult a medical practitioner process proceeds YES to receive phone number or view phone number or other contact means for reaching the service. After receiving and or viewing the phone number or other contact means in which the user and or potential patient may contact the medical practitioner service process proceeds to query to determine whether the user and or potential patient would like to continue with searching . Where the user and or potential patient desires to continue with searching process proceeds YES to enter search criteria . Where no searching is desired process proceeds NO to end operation and process terminates. Alternatively where the user and or potential patient does not desire to consult a medical practitioner process proceeds NO to enter search criteria in which the user and or potential patient provides search criteria for conducting a search for a healthcare facility.

Next process continues through off page connector A to receive search results . In an embodiment such search results comprise information such as wait times at facilities closest geographic or physical proximity to the potential patient s current location quality awards ratings etc. Following the receipt of search results process proceeds to select care facility in which the user and or potential patient indicates a selection of a particular facility. Process may optionally as shown by dashed lines proceed to step for phoning the selected facility with a phone number provided from the Web page s providing search results for example. The provided phone number may be used to track use of the search capabilities of the Web site according to embodiments. Other contact means such as email address or SMS address are provided in other embodiments. Where the user and or potential patient contacts the facility directly process terminates at END operation . Where direct phoning is not performed process proceeds to receive notification form in which the user and or potential patient receives a notification form. Such notification form includes the name of the selected facility in embodiments. In other embodiments the notification form is a generic form requiring the user and or potential patient to fill in the desired facility. The user and or potential patient enters information on the notification form and sends the notification form for processing. Following the processing of the notification form the user and or potential patient receives confirmation or denial of the request to arrive at the facility . Where the request is denied process proceeds to query to determine if the user and or potential patient would like to select another facility. Where the user and or potential patient desires to select another facility process proceeds YES to select facility and steps repeat. Where there is no desire to select another facility process proceeds NO to END operation and process terminates.

In embodiments where the request is approved or confirmed process continues through off page connector B to receive request for further information query . Such request for further information is sent with the confirmation response in embodiments. In other embodiments the request is sent separately from the confirmation response. In an embodiment such further information allows the facility to triage the potential patient before his her arrival at the facility according to embodiments. In another embodiment such further information is requested before the facility confirms or approves the potential patient s requested arrival. Where a request for further information is made process proceeds YES to enter or provide further information and such information is sent for processing. Next process proceeds to query for determining whether a further confirmation is received from the facility in response to sending of the further information. Where no further confirmation is received process proceeds NO to query to determine whether to resend the further information. Where it is desired to resend the further information process proceeds YES to send further information and steps and repeat. Where it is not desired to resend the further information process proceeds NO to END operation and process terminates. In an embodiment where it is determined that a further confirmation is received at determination step process proceeds YES to END operation and process terminates.

While B and C illustrate example operational characteristics for searching for a care facility by a user and or potential patient for example B and C depict example operational characteristics for processing a search request and providing results related thereto in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. START operation is initiated and process proceeds to receive request for healthcare provider information for emergency convenient and or urgent care. Such request is received by a server s of a company providing the healthcare facility search services in embodiments. In response to such a request process transmits or sends healthcare facility information for emergency urgent care and or convenient care. Such information comprises descriptions of such facilities types of medical conditions treated at such facilities etc. according to embodiments. Process may then optionally as shown by dashed lines proceed to optional step for receiving membership information in embodiments where the user and or potential patient is a member of or otherwise affiliated with the company providing the healthcare facility search services. Process also may optionally as shown by dashed lines proceed to optional step for displaying information for contacting a medical practitioner directly for information advice opinions etc. In an embodiment such a medical practitioner service is the Consult A Nurse service for example. Process next proceeds to receive search criteria in which a search request for an emergency urgent care and or convenient care facility is received.

Next process continues through off page connector A to send search results . In an embodiment search results are sent or transmitted after processing of the search request in which such processing comprises retrieving information and or data from a database s for address information member profiles facility listings facility ratings facility awards facility quality ratings etc. processing such information and or data and or communicating with a facility or a plurality of facilities to determine current wait times availabilities etc. In embodiments communications with a facility or plurality of facilities occurs directly between servers while other embodiments provide for retrieving of current wait times current availabilities etc. from intermediary services databases or temporary storage means for example.

Following the transmittal of search results process continues to receive a selection of a facility . Process may then optionally as shown by dashed lines proceed to display phone number for the selected facility in which such phone number may allow for tracking to indicate that such number was obtained from the particular company Web site. In another embodiment contact means other than a phone number are displayed such as an email address SMS address etc. Process next proceeds to display notification form and information and or data is received with respect to the notification form at step . This information and or data and or the form itself according to various embodiments is then transmitted to the facility or to intermediary servers or other processing means such as another company service in an embodiment in communication with the selected facility. After the processing of the request an approval or denial of the request is received . In an embodiment a request for further information is received . Next the approval denial request for further information is transmitted or sent to the user and or potential user . Query then determines whether a selection is received for another facility. Where a selection for another facility is received process proceeds YES to step and steps repeat.

Where no further selection is received process proceeds NO through off page connector to query in which it is determined whether further information is received from the user and or potential patient . In an embodiment such further information is received where the user and or potential patient responds to a request for further information from the facility. In another embodiment such further information is provided by the user and or potential patient without prompting. Where it is determined that further information is received process proceeds YES to transmit further information to the facility in which such information may be transmitted directly to the facility in an embodiment. In another embodiment such information is transmitted to an intermediary server or service communicating with the facility for example. Query next determines whether a confirmation of receipt of the further information is received from the facility . Where a confirmation is received process proceeds YES to transmit the further confirmation to the user and or potential user and process terminates at END operation . Where no further confirmation is received process proceeds NO to query to determine whether to resend the further information. Where it is desired to resend the information process proceeds YES to and steps repeat. Where it is not desired to resend the information process proceeds NO to END operation and process terminates. Further in the embodiment where no further information is received from the user and or potential patient process proceeds NO to END operation and process terminates.

Turning to this figure illustrates example operational characteristics of a process for receiving current location information through a location system in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. START operation is initiated and process proceeds to request information for healthcare facilities such as emergency urgent care and or convenient care facilities. In an embodiment the user and or potential patient is using a mobile device for example. Next the mobile device receives location information via a location system . In an embodiment the location information is received from a navigation satellite system such as the Global Positioning System for example. The location information comprises geographic coordinates in embodiments. In another embodiment the location information is received through triangulation through a cellular network. In embodiments the location information is sent over a network to a server s for processing. Next a search Web page with an automatically populated address for the user s and or potential patient s current locations is received . In an embodiment the address information is automatically populated but hidden from view. In another embodiment the address information can be viewed by the user and or potential patient. The user and or potential patient then defines a search . Process may then optionally as shown by dashed lines proceed to query to determine if the user and or potential patient desires to verify the location information automatically populated on the search form. For example the user and or potential patient may desire to confirm that the address of the user s and or potential patient s current location is correct. If the user and or potential patient desires to verify the location information process proceeds YES to verify and query to determine if the location information is correct. If the location information is not correct process proceeds NO to revise the location information in the search . In an embodiment the location information is revised by the user and or potential patient by entering address information into a text box through input means. In another embodiment the location information is revised by selecting a different address from a list of addresses with the use of up and down arrows such as the up and down arrows shown in . Any type of means of revising the location information may be used in embodiments. Where the location information is correct process proceeds YES to submit search request . Returning to query where the user and or potential patient does not desire to verify the location information process proceeds NO to submit search request . Following the processing of the search request search results are received and process terminates at END operation . is an example of possible operational characteristics for receiving location information from a location system for assisting a user and or potential patient with performing a search for a healthcare facility in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Operational steps depicted may be combined into other steps and or rearranged. Further fewer or additional steps may be used for example.

Next illustrates example operational characteristics of a method for processing by a healthcare facility a request for treatment in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. START operation is initiated and process proceeds to receive a request for emergency urgent care and or convenient care . Next the facility responds with its current wait times . In other embodiments additional or different information is also provided depending on the request and on the information the facility desires to convey. Process next proceeds to query to determine whether the facility desires to update any other information in addition to current wait times. Where the facility desires to update other information process proceeds YES to provide information . Where the facility does not desire to update other information process proceeds NO to receive notification in which the facility receives a notification from a user and or potential patient of his her expected arrival at the facility. The facility then processes the notification and determines at query whether more information is desired and or needed to determine if the facility can accept the potential patient. Where additional information is desired and or needed process proceeds YES to request more information . In an embodiment such additional information is requested from the user and or potential patient. In another embodiment such additional information is requested from and provided by the company providing the healthcare facility search services. Next query determines whether the additional information requested has been received. Where no additional information has been received process proceeds NO to request more information and steps repeat. Where more information is received process proceeds YES to query to determine if additional information is needed and or desired. Where no additional information is needed and or desired process proceeds NO to query to determine if the facility has availability to accept the potential patient for treatment. Where availability exists process proceeds YES to send confirmation in which a confirmation response is sent confirming the facility s ability to accept the potential patient for treatment. Process may optionally as shown by dashed lines proceed to triage step to allow the facility to request further information regarding the potential patient s condition to allow the facility to triage the patient before his her arrival at the facility. The facility may also optionally prepare for arrival according to an embodiment. In another embodiment the facility s preparation for the patient s arrival is not an optional step but instead is conducted by the facility as a routine step in the process. Process then terminates at END operation . Returning to query where the facility does not have any availability process proceeds NO to send a denial response in which the facility denies the potential patient s request for admittance. Process then proceeds to END operation and terminates. is an example of possible operational characteristics for processing a request by a user to be admitted at an emergency urgent care and or convenient care facility and for obtaining triage type data over a network in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. Operational steps depicted may be combined into other steps and or rearranged. Further fewer or additional steps may be used for example.

Finally illustrates an example computing system upon which embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented. A computer system such as client computer or servers or which has at least one processor for exchanging form data and messages related thereto as shown in is depicted in accordance with embodiments disclosed herein. The system has a memory comprising for example system memory volatile memory and non volatile memory. In its most basic configuration computing system is illustrated in by dashed line . Additionally system may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

The term computer readable media as used herein may include computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all computer storage media examples i.e. memory storage. Computer storage media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device . The illustration in is intended in no way to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The term computer readable media as used herein may also include communication media. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may describe a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

System may also contain communications connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Additionally to input content into the form fields displayed on a User Interface UI on client computer for example as provided by a corresponding UT module on client computer for example in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure system may have input device s such as a keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All of these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here. The aforementioned devices are examples and others may be used.

Having described embodiments of the present disclosure with reference to the figures above it should be appreciated that numerous modifications may be made to the embodiments that will readily suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and which are encompassed within the scope and spirit of the present disclosure and as defined in the appended claims. Indeed while embodiments have been described for purposes of this disclosure various changes and modifications may be made which are well within the scope of the present disclosure.

Similarly although this disclosure has used language specific to structural features methodological acts and computer readable media containing such acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific structure acts features or media described herein. Rather the specific structures features acts and or media described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. Aspects of embodiments allow for multiple client computers multiple servers and multiple networks etc. Or in other embodiments a single client computer with a single server and single network are used. One skilled in the art will recognize other embodiments or improvements that are within the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. Therefore the specific structure acts or media are disclosed as example embodiments of implementing the present disclosure. The disclosure is defined by the appended claims.

