---

title: Mesofluidic controlled robotic or prosthetic finger
abstract: A mesofluidic powered robotic and/or prosthetic finger joint includes a first finger section having at least one mesofluidic actuator in fluid communication with a first actuator, a second mesofluidic actuator in fluid communication with a second actuator and a second prosthetic finger section pivotally connected to the first finger section by a joint pivot, wherein the first actuator pivotally cooperates with the second finger to provide a first mechanical advantage relative to the joint point and wherein the second actuator pivotally cooperates with the second finger section to provide a second mechanical advantage relative to the joint point.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08585776&OS=08585776&RS=08585776
owner: UT-Battelle, LLC
number: 08585776
owner_city: Oak Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110203
---
The inventions were made with government support under Prime Contract No. DE AC05 00OR22725 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the inventions.

This patent relates to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 020 633 entitled Mesofluidic Shape Memory Alloy Valve filed on Feb. 3 2011 co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 020 626 entitled Mesofluidic Two Stage Digital Valve filed on Feb. 3 2011 and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 020 620 entitled Mesofluidic Digital Valve filed on Feb. 3 2011 the contents of these applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Hydraulics and flow control concepts are utilized in positioning and lifting applications. Hydraulics and flow control are often segmented based on the operational requirements and pressure utilized for a given application. For example in many heavy lifting applications the hydraulics and flow controls are designed to work in high pressure and high flow configurations. These applications include operating pressures in excess of one thousand pounds per square inch 1000 psi and flow rates measured in gallons per minutes G min . In high pressure and high flow applications the actuators are typically constructed to provide the mechanical strength calculated to withstand the stresses and forces to which they may be subjected. In another example biomedical devices and other precision low force applications are designed to work in low pressure and low flow configurations. These low flow applications include operating pressures at pressures below one hundred pounds per square inch 

The limitations inherent in both the high pressure high flow and low pressure low flow applications effect the development of robotic and or prosthetic appendages such as robotic and or prosthetic fingers and or hands. For example a robotics and or prosthetic appendage configured for a high pressure high flow application to generate large forces and or provide a quick response may be bulky and be difficult to precisely control. Alternatively a robotics and or prosthetic appendage configured for a low pressure low flow application to provide precision control may be slow to respond and unable to generate large forces. Accordingly actuators valves controls and devices that address these limitations are desirable.

Mesofluidics as used herein describes a class or configuration of hydraulic actuators designed to operate at high pressures and low flow rates. Mesofluidic actuators range in size and configuration from a few millimeters to one or more centimeters in length and may in one or more embodiments be cylindrical. Mesofluidics actuators may be configured to provide high force density 1000 psi low friction direct drive and high mechanical bandwidth while utilizing a variety of working fluids ranging from oil to water to synthetics. An exemplary mesofluidic actuator may be 2.3 mm 0.09 inches in diameter and configured to generate or provide 1.09 kg 2.4 lbs of force with 7.6 mm 0.3 inches of displacement. Alternatively another mesofluidic actuator may be 9.6 mm 0.38 inches in diameter and configured to generate or provide 8.9 kg 19.8 lbs of force with 25.4 mm 1.0 inches of displacement. Both exemplary mesofluidic actuators are configured to provide a dynamic response exceeding equivalent human muscle actuation.

Hydraulic control valves control the flow of fluid moving into and out of a hydraulic actuator thereby controlling the actuator velocity. Known high pressure high flow and low pressure low flow valves typically utilize an orifice having a variable area to control fluid flow and consequently the speed of the valve . Regardless of the type of application e.g. high pressure high flow and low pressure low flow the valves typically utilize orifices which have comparable area. Mesofluidic valves by way of contrast utilize extremely small orifices in order to control or provide for the low flow demand in a high pressure environment. The orifices utilized in mesofluidic valves are often orders of magnitude smaller than an orifice utilized in known valves. For example a valve configured to provide flow rates lower than a ml sec at pressures greater than 2000 psi requires an orifice having a diameter less than a few thousandths of an inch.

The present disclosure describes two classes of mesofluidic high pressure low flow control valves I the Shape Memory Alloy SMA thermal valve and II the digital valve. The exemplary thermal SMA valve disclosed herein is a poppet style valve actuated by a liquid cooled shape memory alloy. In this embodiment the shape memory alloy is formed into a wire that is configured to shrink when heated by an electrical current passed there though. The more current and subsequently heat passed through the wire the faster is contracts. Contraction of the SMA wire portion of the valve causes the attached poppet to disengage from the orifice and fluid to flow there through. By adjusting the current and heat of the SMA wire the opening between the orifice and the poppet can be controlled. The orifice in one exemplary embodiment may be manufactured from an exotic material such as sapphire and ruby to provide an orifice diameter as small as four ten thousands of an inch 0.0004 inches .

The responsiveness and or performance of the SMA thermal valve may be controlled by regulating the temperature of the SMA wire. For example in order to open the actuator quickly current may be applied to the SMA wire to generate heat thereby causing the wire to contract and opening the orifice. However in order to close the actuator quickly the SMA wire must be cooled to allow the SMA wire to expand in cooperation with a compression spring to reseat the poppet in the orifice. In order to cool the SMA wire quickly fluid flow from the orifice i.e. the input port is directed around the SMA wire which is disposed in the fluid flow path and the moving flow helps remove the heat from the SMA wire thereby causing it to cool and the valve to close. The SMA thermal valve provides a simple and low cost means of control fluid in a high pressure low flow system.

The exemplary mesofluidic digital valve disclosed herein may be configured to finely regulate flow rate through an orifice. Control or regulation of the flow rate through the valve may be further complicated because the difference between fully open and fully closed may be only a few thousandths of an inch. Thus in order to provide a flow resolution of 1 requires the ability to control the actuator opening within 10einches. The degree of actuator control necessary to ensure the required flow resolution may be difficult if not impossible in practical implementations. The exemplary mesofluidic digital valve addresses this difficulty modulating the fluid flow digitally. In particular the exemplary mesofluidic digital valve utilizes a solenoid to drive a poppet between a fully open position and a fully closed position. In this way fluid flow may be controlled not by varying the size or area of the orifice but rather by controlling how long i.e. the amount of time the valve is open rather than how wide it is open. The exemplary mesofluidic digital valve provides a responsive mechanism or means for controlling fluid flow.

The mesofluidic mechanisms and actuators disclosed herein are well suited for use in the design and construction of robotic and or prosthetic fingers and thumbs. In particular the mesofluidic mechanisms valves and actuators allow for the design of robotic and or prosthetics devices that achieve high performance actuation within the volumetric constraints of the human fingers and hand. Moreover the disclosure provided herein may be scaled and adapted to other robotic and or prosthetic joints or appendages such as for example ankles wrists elbows shoulders and knees.

The end cap further cooperates and engages with a bias or spring carried within the interior of the cylindrical body . The bias or spring in turn compresses and engages a poppet body slideably carried within the interior of the cylindrical body . The poppet body like the cylindrical body is a substantially hollow cylinder that extends along the axial centerline CL. The substantially hollow poppet body and the cylindrical body cooperate to define a fluid flow path between the inlet port and the outlet port .

The poppet body further includes and supports a poppet . The poppet extends linearly away from the poppet body along the axial centerline CL and towards the inlet port . The poppet is configured to engage an orifice carried by the inlet port . The orifice in this exemplary embodiment may be formed or manufactured in an exotic material such as sapphire or ruby as well as conventional materials such as steel aluminum or titanium. The orifice may have a diameter between 0.0004 inches to 0.024 inches depending on the desired flow rate fluid type and operating pressure. The poppet in this exemplary embodiment has a tapered or cone shaped end configured to engage the orifice . Alternative the poppet could include a spherical or round end configured to engage the orifice . Regardless of the specific size and or shape of the poppet in operation the poppet is configured to engage the orifice to establish a fluid seal and block the fluid flow along the fluid flow path .

The poppet may be secured and suspended along the axial centerline CL of the poppet body via for example one or more spokes secured to an inner surface of the poppet body . The spokes allow fluid to flow through the interior of the poppet body when fluid is flowing through the inlet port i.e. when the inlet port is not sealed by the poppet .

The poppet body may further include a post extending across the interior of the substantially hollow cylinder. In particular the post is positioned substantially adjacent to the poppet and transverse to the fluid flow path . A shape memory alloy SMA wire may stretch along the fluid flow path from the first connector to the post . At the post the SMA wire may wrap around the periphery of the post and stretch back to the second connector . The SMA wire may be electrically connected to the connectors to form a circuit. Passing a current through the connector causes the SMA wire to heat up and contract. As the SMA wire contracts the poppet and the poppet body are pulled away from the orifice by the interaction of the SMA wire and the post . In particular as the SMA wire heats up and contracts it pulls against the post which caused the poppet body to bear against and compress the spring . As the poppet disengages from the orifice in response to the movement of poppet body high pressure fluid flows from the inlet port to the outlet port along the fluid flow path .

Where Cis the discharge coefficient typically 0.61 Ais the orifice area P is the pressure difference across the actuator and is the fluid density. Mathematically the orifice area Ais equivalent to d where dis the diameter the orifice. Utilizing the exemplary numbers discussed above when the diameter of the orifice dis 0.0004 inches the corresponding orifice area Ais very small. Accordingly even for very large values of P i.e. even at high pressures the flow rate Q will remain low.

In operation a high pressure fluid source not shown may be fluidly coupled to the exemplary shape memory alloy thermal valve via the inlet port and an exhaust not shown may be fluidly coupled to the outlet port . As illustrated in the connectors a and b may be connected to a controller that includes a processor in communication with a memory . The memory may be configured to store instructions and commands executable by the processor . The processor and memory may further be in communication with a power source and a communication module . The communication module may be configured to communicate with the exemplary shape memory alloy thermal valve and or other external devices. For example a single controller may control and drive multiple the shape memory alloy thermal valve . Alternatively the controller may utilize known wired e.g. TCP IP Ethernet and or wireless e.g. . . and . networking communication protocols to communicate with other controllers and or devices.

The SMA wire contracts in response to the generated heat and bears against the post . Contraction of the SMA wire causes the bias to compress and pulls the poppet body away from the first end . The poppet moves in cooperation with the poppet body away from the orifice in response to the contraction of the SMA wire . In particular as the SMA wire heats up and contracts it pulls against the post which caused the poppet body to bear against and compress the spring .

As the poppet disengages from the orifice in response to the movement of poppet body high pressure fluid flows from the inlet port to the outlet port along the fluid flow path . The high pressure fluid flows through the small area of the orifice A at a low flow rate Q and along the length of the SMA wire suspended in the fluid flow path .

The controller may in response to a received condition or signal and or a program command disconnect or cease transmission of the electrical current to the connectors and . In the absence of the electrical current the SMA wire is no longer heated and may begin to expand. Expansion of the SMA wire may be encouraged by the force exerted by the spring . Expansion of the SMA wire may further be encouraged by the fluid flow along the fluid flow path . In particular the movement of the fluid along the SMA wire between the inlet port and the outlet ort may cool the SMA wire and help remove excess heat. In this way the spring and the SMA wire may be configured to simply and responsively control the flow of high pressure fluid through the orifice .

The inlet port carries an exotic material orifice configured to cooperate with a poppet portion of a poppet body . The exotic material orifice may be for example a ruby or sapphire orifice having a fluid passage formed there through or may be made from conventional materials such as nonferrous stainless steel or titanium. The diameter of the passage may be as small as 0.0004 or as high as 0.024 . The poppet and the orifice cooperate to block fluid flow between the inlet port and the outlet port . As shown in the poppet body is carried within a poppet chamber portion of the cylindrical body and extends along the axial centerline CL. The poppet body is sized to define a gap with respect to the back surface of the poppet chamber . The gap defines and limits the travel of the poppet with respect to the orifice . The poppet body is configured to carry a spring within a spring cavity defined along the axial centerline CL. The spring biases the poppet body away from the back surface of the poppet chamber such that the poppet engages the orifice .

The cylindrical body further carries a solenoid configured to magnetically couple to the poppet body . For example when the solenoid is charged and generating a magnetic field the conductive material of the poppet body will be encouraged to translate away from the orifice the distance of the gap . The translation of the poppet body causes the spring to compress under the influence of the motive force imparted by the magnetic field.

The solenoid may be connected to and or controlled by the controller see that includes the processor in communication with the memory . The memory configured to store instructions and commands executable by the processor . The processor and memory further in communication with a power source and a communication module . The communication module may be configured to communicate with and control the mesofluidic digital valve .

In operation the controller may execute a program or other series of stored instructions or commands that energizes the solenoid to translate the poppet body and compress the spring . In this way the poppet which is fixedly attached to the poppet body translates away from the orifice the fixed distance of the gap . The flow rate through the orifice is controlled by the amount or period of time the solenoid remains energized by the controller . In this way the specific position of the poppet need not be controlled with extreme precision because the flow rate through the orifice is not controlled by the variable position of the poppet relative to the orifice rather the flow between the inlet port and the outlet port is controlled by the time the orifice is open.

In operation the digital valve may be utilized to control the flow through the second stage . In particular when the digital valve is open fluid escapes from the poppet chamber via the fluid passage and the fluid pressure within the poppet chamber is correspondingly decreased. The decreased pressure in the poppet chamber allows the high pressure provided via the high pressure inlet port to overcome the spring force provided by the spring . The greater the amount fluid allowed to escape via the fluid passage the lower the pressure within the poppet chamber and the more the second stage opens. In this manner the digital valve which utilizes little electrical power for operation may be utilized to control the second stage which in a known system or valve would require a great deal of power to control .

In another embodiment the orifice of the second stage is fixed orifice having an area that is smaller than the area of the orifice of the digital valve . In this way area fine control of the pressure on the back side of the second stage may be established and fine control of the poppet position may be maintained.

The inclusion of the digital valve provides a responsive efficient and quickly controlled two stage valve . The digital modulation of the fluid in the poppet chamber provides for smooth flow with minimal pressure pulsations within the two stage valve . The spring may in an embodiment be a stiff spring relative to the pressure at the inlet port having a large spring constant. Alternatively the spring may be a weak spring and the two stage valve may include both a poppet position feedback with a linear variable differential transformer LVDT and a pressure feedback of the poppet chamber with a pressure sensor.

Each robotic and or prosthetic segment to cooperates with a pair of counter acting high pressure low flow pistons to respectively. Each of the pistons to cooperates to encourage the corresponding robotic and or prosthetic segment to to rotate about pivot points to . The pivot points to and the pistons to are arranged to cam and control the movement of the robotic and or prosthetic finger in a life like manner.

Each of the pistons to may include one or more digital valves and or shape memory alloy thermal valves . In this manner the robotic and or prosthetic finger may be operated at a high pressure to generate a large force while simultaneously operating at a low flow rate that provides precise control.

In operation each of the pistons to is maintained under pressure. For example piston may be experiencing increasing pressure and extending in the direction indicated by the arrow B while the piston is experiencing decreasing pressure and retracting in the direction indicated by the arrow C. The counter movement of the pistons and cause the robotic and or prosthetic segment to rotate about the pivot point in the direction indication by the arrow D. By reversing the flows to the pistons the movement of robotic and or prosthetic section may be reversed. These principles may be similarly and independently applied to the robotic and or prosthetic segments and .

The integration of the valve with the finger segment to provides a simple design in which the piston bores of the pistons to are part of the mechanical structure of the finger. Fluid may be routed through each finger segment to via tubes or cross drilled holes controlled via the valves .

It should be understood that various changes and modifications to the presently preferred embodiments described herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention and without diminishing its intended advantages. It is therefore intended that such changes and modifications be covered by the appended claims.

