---

title: Intershaft seal with support linkage
abstract: An assembly for gas turbine engine includes a cross-over housing, an inter-shaft seal housing, and a linkage. The inter-shaft seal housing is disposed within the cross-over housing. The linkage is connected to the inter-shaft seal housing and extends through a slot in the cross-over housing. The linkage is removable from both the inner radial housing and the outer radial housing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08919134&OS=08919134&RS=08919134
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08919134
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110126
---
This invention was made with United States government support under government contract. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to gas turbine engines and more particularly to bearing compartments of gas turbine engines.

The rotating shafts and other rotating turbomachinery of gas turbine engines are supported from a non rotating structure by arrays of anti friction bearings. In many engines the anti friction bearings are enclosed in bearing compartments that circumscribe the engine shafts. A lubricant such as oil is supplied to the bearing compartments to lubricate and cool the anti friction bearings during operation of the gas turbine engine. The bearing compartments act to contain the lubricant around the bearings.

To prevent overheating of the rotating shafts a cooling gas is circulated in the volume between the shafts. An intershaft seal assembly is positioned in the bearing compartment at a gap between the shafts and prevents the cooling gas from leaking from between the shafts into the lubricant supplied portions of the bearing compartments. The intershaft seal additionally prevents the lubricant from leaking into the volume between the shafts.

Carbon seals that make up portions of the inter shaft seal assembly are retained within the bearing compartment by a carbon seal housing which in turn is connected to other housings within the bearing compartment. To meet structural integrity requirements the carbon seal housing uses rigid integral linkages to provide this connection. However having integral linkages makes installation and removal of the inter shaft seal assembly including the carbon seal housing impractical or impossible in the bearing compartments of some aircraft due to the tight bearing envelopes necessitated by the aircraft s design criteria.

An assembly for gas turbine engine includes a cross over housing an inter shaft seal housing and a linkage. The inter shaft seal housing is disposed within the cross over housing. The linkage is connected to the inter shaft seal housing and extends through a slot in the cross over housing. The linkage is removable from both the inner radial housing and the outer radial housing.

In another aspect the linkage has a first second and third brackets and first and second legs. The first and second legs intersect one another and are connected to the first bracket. The first leg and the second leg substantially align along a common plane. The second bracket extends from a distal portion of the first leg and a third bracket extends from a distal portion of the second leg. The second bracket and the third bracket are orientated so as to extend in opposite directions from one another in substantially a same plane.

The bearing compartment in the illustrated embodiment is the mid bearing compartment of the gas turbine engine . The bearing compartment houses the bearings A and AA which are disposed around and support the high pressure compressor shaft the low pressure turbine shaft the tower shafts only a single low spool tower shaft is shown in and the fan shaft . In particular the bearings support the high pressure compressor shaft the low pressure turbine shaft and the fan shaft . The bearings A and AA support the tower shafts . The high pressure compressor shaft is disposed radially outward of and spaced apart from the low pressure turbine shaft . The coupling connects the fan shaft to the tower shafts via the bevel gears . The outer housing extends annularly around and is disposed axially forward of components such as the bearings and tower shafts . The outer housing also called a bearing support or front cover extends radially from adjacent the casing that defines the core flow path Cto interface with the coupling and additionally connects to the cross over housing . The cross over housing extends from the outer housing and interfaces and supports the bearing sets A and AA disposed around the tower shafts . The inter shaft seal assembly is disposed radially inward of the cross over housing and axially between the coupling and the high pressure compressor shaft . The inter shaft seal assembly interfaces with the seats also called seal runners . The seats are axially abutted by the spacers and the seats and spacers are disposed radially along the outer diameter of the high pressure compressor shaft and the coupling .

The operational principles of gas turbine engine are well known in the art and therefore will not be discussed in great detail. As is known in the art the high pressure compressor shaft connects a high pressure compressor section of the gas turbine engine with a high pressure turbine section of the engine . Together the high pressure compressor shaft the high pressure compressor section and the high pressure turbine section comprise a high pressure spool of the engine . Similarly the low pressure turbine shaft connects a fan section via the fan shaft with a low pressure compressor section and a low pressure turbine section of the engine . Together these sections and components comprise a low pressure spool of the engine . During operation of the gas turbine engine a gas flow passes through core flow path Cto rotate the high pressure and low pressure spools to extract energy from the gas flow and produce thrust. Additionally gas flow bypasses the core flow path Cand rotates the fan to extract additional energy and thrust from the gas flow passing through a nacelle portion of the engine .

The bearing compartment circumscribes the shafts and and bearings A and AA and acts to contain a lubricant oil that is supplied to the bearing compartment to lubricate and cool the bearings A AA during operation of the gas turbine engine . The bearings support the high pressure compressor shaft the low pressure turbine shaft and the fan shaft also called a stub shaft and allow the shafts and to rotate relative to the stator engine casing. Similarly the bearings A and AA support the tower shafts and allow the tower shafts to rotate relative to the stator engine casing.

As will be discussed in further detail subsequently the cross over housing supports the inter shaft seal assembly . The structure and operational principles of the inter shaft seal assembly are well know in the art and is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 196 790 to Sheridan et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. The inter shaft seal assembly prevents a cooling gas circulated between the shafts and from leaking into the lubricant supplied portions of the bearing compartment . Additionally the inter shaft seal assembly prevents the lubricant from leaking into the volume between the shafts and . To accomplish this the inter shaft seal assembly has carbon seals that are biased to ride against the seats which are also constructed of carbon material. The spacer abuts the seats to provide necessary spacing between the rearward bearing and the coupling .

As shown in the cross over housing extends circumferentially so as to have an axis of symmetry that substantially aligns with centerline of the gas turbine . The carbon seal housing is disposed radially inward of the cross over housing . The removable linkage and the integral tabs and connect the carbon seal housing to the cross over housing . In particular the integral tabs extend radially inward from the main body of the cross over housing and each of the integral tabs has a mounting hole that extends therethrough. The integral tabs interface with the integral tabs that extend radially outward from the flange portion of the carbon seal housing . Each of the integral tabs has a mounting hole that extends therethrough. The integral tabs and are adapted to receive fasteners in the aligned mounting holes to connect together.

A smaller integral member A extends outward from the flange portion to interface with the removable linkage . The removable linkage and the integral member A are also fastened together with a fastener that is received in a mounting hole A. Although three pairs of the integral tabs and and one removable linkage are shown in in other embodiments the number of integral tabs and removable linkages may vary.

The design of the cross over housing the carbon seal housing and the removable linkage allow for improved ease of assembly and disassembly yet allows the resulting assembly to meet structural integrity requirements such as those with regard to vibratory response during operation of the engine . The removable linkage can be inserted and removed though the slot from a position radially outward of the cross over housing and can be secured to the outer circumference of the cross over housing . Additionally the geometry of the removable linkage mistake proofs installation as the removable linkage can be rotated 180 degrees and still be installed to couple with the cross over housing .

The first bracket is adapted to fit through slot and interface with the integral member A so that mounting holes generally align with mounting holes A. The legs A and B intersect one another adjacent to the first bracket and are connected thereto. The first leg A and the second leg B are substantially aligned along a common plane so as to extend through the slot together. The first leg A and the second leg B have symmetry with respect to a plane extending through the bracket .

The bracket A extends from a distal portion of the first leg A and the bracket B extends from a distal portion of the second leg B. The brackets A and B are orientated so as to extend in opposite directions from one another in substantially a same plane. This configuration allows the brackets A and B to interface with the outer circumference of the cross over housing to either side of the slot and provides for improved load distribution through the removable linkage . The brackets A and B extend along a plane that is substantially perpendicular to plane that the first leg A and second leg B extend along. Additionally the plane the brackets A and B extend along is substantially perpendicular to a plane along which the first bracket extends.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

