---

title: Techniques for provisioning cloud computing environment resources based on social media analysis
abstract: A technique for provisioning computing environment resources based on social media analysis includes monitoring, using a data processing system, references (e.g., hyperlinks) provided by a first website to detect an anticipated flash crowd for a web-accessible resource (e.g., second website). The technique also includes generating, using the data processing system, a notice to allocate resources associated with the web-accessible resource to service the anticipated flash crowd.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08578028&OS=08578028&RS=08578028
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08578028
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110106
---
The present invention generally relates to provisioning computing environment resources based on social media analysis and in particular to techniques for provisioning cloud computing environment resources based on social media analysis.

In general cloud computing refers to Internet based computing where shared resources software and information are provided to users of computer systems and other electronic devices e.g. mobile phones on demand similar to the electricity grid. Adoption of cloud computing has been aided by the widespread adoption of virtualization which is the creation of a virtual rather than actual version of something e.g. an operating system a server a storage device network resources etc. A virtual machine VM is a software implementation of a physical machine e.g. a computer system that executes instructions like the physical machine. VMs are usually categorized as system VMs or process VMs. A system VM provides a complete system platform that supports the execution of a complete operating system OS . In contrast a process VM is usually designed to run a single program and support a single process. A characteristic of a VM is that application software running on the VM is limited to the resources and abstractions provided by the VM. System VMs also referred to as hardware VMs allow the sharing of the underlying physical machine resources between different VMs each of which executes its own OS. The software that provides the virtualization and controls the VMs is typically referred to as a VM monitor VMM or hypervisor. A hypervisor may run on bare hardware Type 1 or native VMM or on top of an operating system Type 2 or hosted VMM .

Cloud computing provides a consumption and delivery model for information technology IT services based on the Internet and involves over the Internet provisioning of dynamically scalable and usually virtualized resources. Cloud computing is facilitated by ease of access to remote computing websites via the Internet and frequently takes the form of web based tools or applications that a cloud consumer can access and use through a web browser as if the tools or applications were a local program installed on a computer system of the cloud consumer. Commercial cloud implementations are generally expected to meet quality of service QoS requirements of consumers and typically include service level agreements SLAs . Cloud consumers avoid capital expenditures by renting usage from a cloud vendor i.e. a third party provider . In a typical cloud implementation cloud consumers consume resources as a service and pay only for resources used.

A flash crowd is a term used for are very large group of individuals that access a particular website simultaneously in response to an event e.g. an entry on a social news website such as Digg or Slashdot . In an extreme case a flash crowd may cause one or more web servers to go down sometimes referred to as the Digg effect or Slashdot effect depending on the referring website and may cause other negative effects to a network around the web servers. Conventionally flash crowds have forced web content creators to either allocate bandwidth e.g. in the form of additional web servers that is not utilized the vast majority of the time or accept that when a flash crowd accesses content on a website allocated web servers will not be able to handle the additional traffic caused by the flash crowd. In general dynamic scalability and provisioning available with cloud computing helps address the issue of flash crowds among others . Unfortunately dynamic provisioning of additional instances in a conventional cloud computing environment is entirely reactive and takes a non trivial amount of time.

Disclosed are a method a data processing system and a computer program product embodied in a computer readable storage medium for provisioning cloud computing environment resources based on social media analysis.

A technique for provisioning cloud computing environment resources based on social media analysis includes monitoring using a data processing system references e.g. hyperlinks provided by a first website to detect an anticipated flash crowd for a web accessible resource e.g. a second website . The technique also includes generating using the data processing system a notice to allocate resources associated with the web accessible resource to service the anticipated flash crowd.

The above summary contains simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail and is not intended as a comprehensive description of the claimed subject matter but rather is intended to provide a brief overview of some of the functionality associated therewith. Other systems methods functionality features and advantages of the claimed subject matter will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed written description.

The above as well as additional objectives features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent in the following detailed written description.

The illustrative embodiments provide a method a data processing system and a computer program product embodied in a computer readable storage medium for provisioning cloud computing environment resources based on social media analysis.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical architectural programmatic mechanical electrical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

It is understood that the use of specific component device and or parameter names are for example only and not meant to imply any limitations on the invention. The invention may thus be implemented with different nomenclature terminology utilized to describe the components devices parameters herein without limitation. Each term utilized herein is to be given its broadest interpretation given the context in which that term is utilized.

While conventional cloud computing solutions use thresholds to bring additional servers on line to service workloads flash crowds are not linear in ramp up i.e. traffic associated with flash crowds increases exponentially and as such do not usually allow enough time to bring additional servers on line to adequately service the flash crowd. For example in a conventional cloud computing environment minutes of webpage load time may be lost to dynamic provisioning while a flash crowd is attempting to concurrently access an application web application . As alluded to above while there are times when it is possible to accurately predict that more instances of an application will be needed current cloud computing solutions are not capable of anticipating flash crowds.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure a monitoring agent executing on a data processing system is implemented to monitor selected websites in order to anticipate a flash crowd and create anticipatory cloud resource instances in order to service the flash crowd. Alternatively the monitoring agent upon detecting an anticipated flash crowd may be configured to notify e.g. via an application programming interface API call a cloud server that owns a resource that additional resource instances should be brought on line. For example the monitoring agent may be configured to notify a cloud server that owns an application and or data set when the person group company that owns the monitoring agent does not also own the application and or data set that the flash crowd is about to access.

It should be understood that although this disclosure includes a detailed description on cloud computing implementation of the teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather embodiments of the present invention are capable of being implemented in conjunction with any other type of computing environment now known or later developed including client server and peer to peer computing environments. Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. A cloud model may include at least five characteristics at least three service models and at least four deployment models.

Cloud characteristics may include on demand self service broad network access resource pooling rapid elasticity and measured service. Cloud service models may include software as a service SaaS platform as a service PaaS and infrastructure as a service IaaS . Cloud deployment models may include private cloud community cloud public cloud and hybrid cloud.

On demand self service means a cloud consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities such as server time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with a service provider. Broad network access means capabilities are available over a network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms e.g. mobile phones laptops and personal digital assistants PDAs . Resource pooling means computing resources of a provider are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi tenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand. In resource pooling there is a sense of location independence in that the consumer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction e.g. country state or datacenter .

Rapid elasticity means capabilities can be rapidly and elastically provisioned in some cases automatically to quickly scale out and be rapidly released to quickly scale in. To the consumer the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time. Measured service means cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction that is appropriate to the type of service e.g. storage processing bandwidth and active user accounts . Resource usage can be monitored controlled and reported providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

In an SaaS model the capability provided to the consumer is to use applications of a provider that are running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through a thin client interface such as a web browser e.g. web based e mail . In the SaaS model the consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems storage or even individual application capabilities with the possible exception of limited user specific application configuration settings.

In a PaaS model a cloud consumer can deploy consumer created or acquired applications created using programming languages and tools supported by the provider onto the cloud infrastructure. In the PaaS model the consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems or storage but has control over deployed applications and possibly application hosting environment configurations.

In an IaaS service model a cloud consumer can provision processing storage networks and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software which can include operating systems and applications . In the IaaS model the consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems storage deployed applications and possibly limited control of select networking components e.g. host firewalls .

In a private cloud deployment model the cloud infrastructure is operated solely for an organization. The cloud infrastructure may be managed by the organization or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises. In a community cloud deployment model the cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission security requirements policy and compliance considerations . The cloud infrastructure may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises. In a public cloud deployment model the cloud infrastructure is made available to the general public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services.

In a hybrid cloud deployment model the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portability e.g. cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds . In general a cloud computing environment is service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability. At the heart of cloud computing is an infrastructure that includes a network of interconnected nodes.

With reference to a schematic of an exemplary cloud computing node is shown. Cloud computing node is only one example of a suitable cloud computing node and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments described herein. Regardless cloud computing node is capable of being implemented and or performing any of the functionality set forth herein. Cloud computing node includes a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in cloud computing node is illustrated in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units including one or more processor cores a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processors . Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller bus a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include the industry standard architecture ISA bus the micro channel architecture MCA bus the enhanced ISA EISA bus the video electronics standards association VESA local bus and the peripheral components interconnect PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory .

Computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces.

As will be further depicted and described herein memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of various disclosed embodiments. Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via Input Output I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components can be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays redundant array of inexpensive disk RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

With reference to an illustrative cloud computing environment is depicted. As shown cloud computing environment comprises one or more cloud computing nodes with which local computing devices used by cloud consumers such as for example personal digital assistant PDA or cellular telephone A desktop computer B laptop computer C and or automobile computer system N may communicate. Nodes may communicate with one another and may be grouped not shown physically or virtually in one or more networks such as private community public or hybrid clouds as described herein or a combination thereof. In this manner cloud computing environment can offer infrastructure platforms and or software as services for which a cloud consumer does not need to maintain resources on a local computing device. It should be understood that the types of computing devices A N shown in are intended to be illustrative only and that computing nodes and cloud computing environment can communicate with any type of computerized device over any type of network and or network addressable connection e.g. using a web browser .

With reference to a set of functional abstraction layers provided by cloud computing environment is shown. It should be understood that the components layers and functions shown in are intended to be illustrative only and embodiments of the invention are not limited thereto. As depicted in cloud computing environment includes a hardware and software layer a virtualization layer a management layer and a workloads layer .

Hardware and software layer includes various hardware and software components. As one example the hardware components may include mainframes e.g. IBM zSeries systems reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture based servers e.g. IBM pSeries systems IBM xSeries systems IBM BladeCenter systems storage devices networks and networking components. As another example the software components may include network application server software e.g. IBM WebSphere application server software and database software e.g. IBM DB2 database software . IBM zSeries pSeries xSeries BladeCenter WebSphere and DB2 are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation registered in many jurisdictions worldwide.

Virtualization layer provides an abstraction layer in which virtual entities e.g. virtual servers virtual storage virtual networks including virtual private networks virtual applications and operating systems and virtual clients are included. As previously discussed these virtual entities may be accessed by clients of cloud computing environment on demand. The virtual entities are controlled by one or more virtual machine monitors VMMs that may for example be implemented in hardware and software layer virtualization layer or management layer .

Management layer provides various functions e.g. resource provisioning metering and pricing security user portal service level management and SLA planning and fulfillment . The resource provisioning function provides dynamic procurement of computing resources and other resources that are utilized to perform tasks within the cloud computing environment. The metering and pricing function provides cost tracking as resources are utilized within the cloud computing environment and billing or invoicing for consumption of the utilized resources. As one example the utilized resources may include application software licenses.

The security function provides identity verification for cloud consumers and tasks as well as protection for data and other resources. The user portal function provides access to the cloud computing environment for consumers and system administrators. The service level management function provides cloud computing resource allocation and management such that required service levels are met. For example the security function or service level management function may be configured to limit deployment migration of a virtual machine VM image to geographical location indicated to be acceptable to a cloud consumer. The service level agreement SLA planning and fulfillment function provides pre arrangement for and procurement of cloud computing resources for which a future requirement is anticipated in accordance with an SLA.

Workloads layer provides examples of functionality for which the cloud computing environment may be utilized. Examples of workloads and functions which may be provided from this layer include mapping and navigation software development and lifecycle management virtual classroom education delivery data analytics processing and transaction processing.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure a monitoring agent for a web accessible resource e.g. a first website is configured to monitor a second website e.g. a front page atom feed of Digg . In one or more embodiments when a reference e.g. hyperlink for the first website hits the front page of the second website the monitoring agent creates additional resource instances associated with the first website or notifies a provisioning manager for the first website to create additional resource instances e.g. website instances web server instances etc. in anticipation of a flash crowd. The monitoring agent and the provisioning manager may be for example implemented in hardware and software layer virtualization layer or management layer of cloud computing environment . The provisioning manager may for example take the form of a virtual machine monitor VMM .

A monitoring agent may monitor various types of websites to anticipate flash crowds. For example a monitoring agent may monitor social news websites news websites news articles blogs Twitter and or social networking websites. As an example for a social news website a monitoring agent may monitor only a front page of the social news website a recent twenty four hours of the social news website or multiple social news websites simultaneously. In one or more embodiments a monitoring agent may employ a popularity threshold e.g. the number of votes on Digg Reddit or Karma and or hyperlinks higher in a webpage to predict a flash crowd. For news websites and news articles a monitoring agent may for example only monitor a front page or hyperlinks higher in an article may be assigned a higher likelihood of a flash crowd.

For social networking websites monitoring may be limited to profiles of more popular people e.g. celebrities professional athletes movie stars etc . A monitoring agent may scan for hyperlinks that pertain to for example a domain a particular website or webpage in a domain e.g. a particular individual s blog and or a piece of content at a particular website e.g. a specific Youtube video and or a Flickr stream of a particular video . When a flash crowd is anticipated additional instances of the web server the particular application the piece of content and or related content e.g. things linked to from the piece of content and articles e.g. Wikipedia articles on terms in the piece of content may be created in a manner that is easier for the flash crowd to consume e.g. content may be provided at a geographical location that is physically closer to the anticipated flash crowd participants .

For example a time of day and a geographical location of data center servers geographical origin of an item and the location of the item and a subject matter and language of an item may be used as factors in determining resources required to service an anticipated flash crowd. As one example based on a time of day and a geographical location of data center servers additional application instances may be spun up in the United States between noon and 8 00 p.m. and fewer applications instance may be spun up in the Asia Pacific region during the same time period. As another example historical data from similar subjects and items and the number of views for those items may be employed in determining resources required to service an anticipated flash crowd. For example if a post on Digg is for a movie sequel historical numbers for a previous movie in the sequel can be reviewed to provide an indication of resources that may be required to service an anticipated flash crowd. If a movie also includes one or more famous cast members items with the famous cast members can be reviewed and taken into account.

As another example Zeitgeist items i.e. items that provide the general cultural intellectual ethical spiritual and or political climate within a nation or specific groups along with the general ambience morals socio cultural direction and mood associated with an era and Internet memes i.e. concepts that spread via the Internet may be utilized to predict resources required to service an anticipated flash crowd. For example if a website e.g. Digg maintains a subscription to the top 1000 or so searches for the last week items falling into similar categories or of that subject may require additional resources. In general whatever is trendy e.g. rickrolling and lolcat is more likely to require more application instances. As is known rickrolling refers to an Internet meme that provides a hyperlink that is not relevant to a represented subject. As is also known lolcat refers to a photograph of a cat with text intended to contribute humor.

Web feeds e.g. really simple syndication RSS feeds from other news sources may be considered when provisioning resources. A staleness threshold may be employed to reduce the number of resources allocated for a flash crowd or to determine when a hyperlink while present on a monitored webpage is not indicative of a flash crowd. For example if a similar subject appears on a competing feed e.g. hours before then fewer additional application instances or zero additional application instances would usually need to be deployed to service a flash crowd as the story or item is old news. The number of mentions of a topic on numerous websites and a correlation of their relative importance may also be utilized as a filter to determine the need for additional application instances. It should be appreciated that similar logic may be applied to predicatively ramp down application instances as the popularity of a hyperlink declines.

With reference to an exemplary cloud computing environment includes a monitoring agent executing on a data processing system that is in communication with one or more monitored websites that are hosted by one or more servers that are accessible via Internet . It should be appreciated that monitoring agent may monitor websites hosted inside of cloud computing environment and or websites hosted outside of cloud computing environment . In an alternative embodiment monitoring agent is located outside of cloud computing environment . Irrespective of whether monitoring agent is located inside or outside of cloud computing environment monitoring agent is in communication e.g. via provisioning manager with servers and located within cloud computing environment . As is illustrated servers and execute virtual machines VMs and respectively. In one or more embodiments VMs and are configured to host one or more websites or other web accessible resource e.g. a file transfer protocol FTP site for which monitoring agent monitors one or more other websites.

While only three servers and are illustrated in cloud computing environment it should be appreciated that more or less than three servers may be implemented within a cloud computing environment configured according to the present disclosure. Moreover while servers and are illustrated as only executing a single VM servers and may host one or more VMs. In various embodiments monitoring agent provisioning manager and servers and execute on data processing system that may be configured in a similar manner as computer system server of . Servers and may be in different geographical locations e.g. different states e.g. Texas Missouri and Michigan within the United States or different countries e.g. Canada Mexico and the United States or a same geographical location e.g. within a same building or within different buildings in a same city . Similarly monitoring agent and provisioning manager may be deployed in a same geographical location as servers and or in a different geographical location.

In one or more embodiments monitoring agent is configured to monitor hyperlinks provided by a first website e.g. website s on server s to detect an anticipated flash crowd for a second website that is hosted by a server e.g. a website hosted by VM on server in cloud computing environment . For example hyperlinks may be provided in one or more feeds provided by the first website. It should be appreciated that monitoring agent may be configured to monitor multiple websites simultaneously. Monitoring agent may for example monitor one or more social news websites news websites news articles blogs Twitter and or social networking websites to detect an anticipated flash crowd for the second website. Monitoring agent may employ a popularity threshold to determine when one of the hyperlinks is indicative of an anticipated flash crowd for the second website. Monitoring agent may also employ a staleness threshold to determine when one of the hyperlinks is not indicative of an anticipated flash crowd for the second website or when fewer VM image instances need to be deployed to service the anticipated flash crowd.

Monitoring agent is also configured to initiate allocation of resources associated with the second website to service the anticipated flash crowd. As one example when a hyperlink for the second website hits the front page of the first website monitoring agent may initiate creation of additional resources for the second website or notify provisioning manager e.g. implemented on the same or a different data processing system as monitoring agent inside or outside cloud computing environment for the second website to create additional resources in anticipation of a flash crowd. For example the additional resources may correspond to additional application instances additional web server instances additional load balancing servers additional content instances and or additional related content instances. As one example the first website may be hosted by a server accessible via Internet and the second website may be hosted by one or more of servers and .

With reference to a flow chart for an exemplary computing environment resource provisioning process for addressing flash crowds in a cloud computing environment according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is illustrated. For ease of understanding process is described in conjunction with cloud computing environment of . In various embodiments process is implemented by monitoring agent which may execute on a data processing system that is located inside or outside of cloud computing environment . Process begins e.g. in response to a request by a cloud consumer for monitoring services at block at which point control transfers to block . In block monitoring agent initiates monitoring references e.g. hyperlinks provided by a first website to detect an anticipated flash crowd for a web accessible resource e.g. a second website . That is monitoring agent monitors references e.g. hyperlinks provided by the first website for a reference e.g. hyperlink that is associated with the web accessible resource e.g. the second website . While process is discussed in conjunction with monitoring a single website it should be appreciated that the disclosed techniques are applicable to monitoring multiple websites.

Next in decision block monitoring agent determines whether a flash crowd is indicated. Monitoring agent may employ a popularity threshold e.g. number of votes on Digg Reddit or Karma and or hyperlinks higher in a webpage to predict detect a flash crowd. In this case when votes for hyperlinks of the second webpage exceed the popularity threshold monitoring agent anticipates the occurrence of a flash crowd for the second webpage. For news websites and news articles monitoring agent may only monitor a front page or hyperlinks higher in an article may be assigned a higher likelihood of a flash crowd. A staleness threshold may also be employed alone or in combination with the popularity threshold to reduce the number of resources allocated for a flash crowd or to determine when a hyperlink while present on a monitored webpage is not indicative of a flash crowd. For example if a similar subject appears on a competing feed e.g. days before then fewer application instances or zero additional application instances usually need to be deployed to service a flash crowd as the story or item is old news.

When a flash crowd is not indicated in block control transfers to block where process ends and control returns to a calling process. When a flash crowd is indicated in block control transfers to block . In block monitoring agent determines a size of an anticipated flash crowd and may determine the number of additional resources that should be allocated for the flash crowd. The allocated additional resources may correspond to for example additional application instances additional web server instances additional load balancing servers additional content instances and or additional related content instances e.g. deployed on one or more of servers and .

Next in block monitoring agent generates a notice to provisioning manager which is responsible for allocating resources for a webpage to allocate resources to service the anticipated flash crowd. The notice may include the number of additional resources to allocate the size of an anticipated flash crowd or both the number of additional resources to allocate and the size of an anticipated flash crowd. Provisioning manager may allocate resources based on the recommendation provided by the monitoring agent or may determine how many resources to allocate based on the size of the anticipated flash crowd or other factors.

The provisioning manager function may be implemented within monitoring agent or within a server that hosts the webpage for which the monitoring agent monitors one or more webpages or by another component e.g. a VMM not shown in cloud computing environment . For example when a flash crowd of five thousand is anticipated three additional webpage application instances may be recommended allocated. As another example when a flash crowd of ten thousand is anticipated six additional webpage application instances may be recommended allocated. In one or more embodiments monitoring agent or another agent is configured to initiate de allocation of the additional resources following a decrease in or termination of the flash crowd at the second website. Following block control transfers to block where process ends and control returns to a calling process as noted above.

With reference to a flow chart for an exemplary computing environment resource provisioning process for addressing flash crowds in a cloud computing environment according to various embodiments of the present disclosure is illustrated. For ease of understanding process is described in conjunction with cloud computing environment of . In various embodiments process is implemented within provisioning manager which may execute on a data processing system that is located inside or outside of cloud computing environment . Process begins e.g. in response to a monitoring service request at block at which point control transfers to block . In block provisioning manager receives a notice from monitoring agent that a flash crowd is anticipated for a web accessible resource e.g. website for which provisioning manager allocates resources. The notice may include a size of an anticipated flash crowd and or a number of additional resources that should be allocated for the flash crowd. As noted above the allocated additional resources may correspond to for example additional application instances additional web server instances additional content instances and or additional related content instances.

Next in block provisioning manager determines the number of additional resources to allocate for the anticipated flash crowd. The provisioning manager may allocate resources based on the recommendation provided by the monitoring agent or may determine how many resources to allocate based on the size of the anticipated flash crowd or other factors disclosed herein. As noted above the provisioning manager function may be implemented within monitoring agent or within a server that hosts the webpage for which the monitoring agent monitors one or more webpages or by another component in cloud computing environment . As one example when a flash crowd of two thousand is anticipated and three more webpage application instances are recommended by monitoring agent provisioning agent may decide to deploy four additional webpage application instances instead of the recommended three additional webpage application instances. As another example when a flash crowd of twenty thousand is anticipated and six additional webpage application instances are recommended by monitoring agent provisioning agent may decide to follow the recommendation and deploy six additional webpage application instances. Next in block provisioning manager allocates resources to service the anticipated flash crowd. Following block control transfers to block where process ends and control returns to a calling process.

In the flow chart above the method depicted in may be embodied in a computer readable medium containing computer readable code such that a series of steps are performed when the computer readable code is executed on a computing device. In some implementations certain steps of the methods may be combined performed simultaneously or in a different order or perhaps omitted without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus while the method steps are described and illustrated in a particular sequence use of a specific sequence of steps is not meant to imply any limitations on the invention. Changes may be made with regards to the sequence of steps without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. Use of a particular sequence is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible storage medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Program code embodied on a computer readable signal medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As will be further appreciated the processes in embodiments of the present invention may be implemented using any combination of software firmware or hardware. As a preparatory step to practicing the invention in software the programming code whether software or firmware will typically be stored in one or more machine readable storage mediums such as fixed hard drives diskettes optical disks magnetic tape semiconductor memories such as ROMs PROMs etc. thereby making an article of manufacture in accordance with the invention. The article of manufacture containing the programming code is used by either executing the code directly from the storage device by copying the code from the storage device into another storage device such as a hard disk RAM etc. or by transmitting the code for remote execution using transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links. The methods of the invention may be practiced by combining one or more machine readable storage devices containing the code according to the present invention with appropriate processing hardware to execute the code contained therein. An apparatus for practicing the invention could be one or more processing devices and storage systems containing or having network access to program s coded in accordance with the invention.

Thus it is important that while an illustrative embodiment of the present invention is described in the context of a fully functional computer server system with installed or executed software those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software aspects of an illustrative embodiment of the present invention are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of media used to actually carry out the distribution.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular system device or component thereof to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. Moreover the use of the terms first second etc. do not denote any order or importance but rather the terms first second etc. are used to distinguish one element from another.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below if any are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

