---

title: Systems and methods for providing a secure uniform resource locator (URL) shortening service
abstract: A computer-implemented method to provide a secure uniform resource locator (URL) shortening service is described. A URL is received via a browser provided on a display of a computing device. A shortened URL is generated to represent the received URL. A determination is made as to whether a classification assigned to a web site associated with the shortened URL is valid. Upon determining that the assigned classification is not valid, the web site is evaluated in order to assign an updated valid classification to the web site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09058490&OS=09058490&RS=09058490
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 09058490
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110211
---
The use of computer systems and computer related technologies continues to increase at a rapid pace. This increased use of computer systems has influenced the advances made to computer related technologies. Indeed computer systems have increasingly become an integral part of the business world and the activities of individual consumers. Computer systems may be used to carry out several business industry and academic endeavors. The wide spread use of computers has been accelerated by the increased use of computer networks including the Internet.

Many businesses use one or more computer networks to communicate and share data between the various computers connected to the networks. The productivity and efficiency of employees often requires human and computer interaction. Users of computer technologies continue to demand that the efficiency of these technologies increase. Improving the efficiency of computer technologies is important to anyone who uses and relies on computers.

As previously mentioned computer networks may be used to communicate and share data between the various computers connected to the networks. In some instances the shared data may be identified with a uniform resource locator URL that provides an address or location for the data. In one example a user may be presented with a URL on a display of the computer. The user may view the URL and desire to access the data file program etc. represented by the presented URL. In some cases the URL may shortened to an abbreviated version of the original URL. In some instances data associated with the URL may be malicious. As a result when the user clicks on the URL either the original or the shortened version the computer may access malicious content. Accordingly benefits may be realized by providing systems and methods for providing a secure URL shortening service.

According to at least one embodiment a computer implemented method to provide a secure uniform resource locator URL shortening service is described. A URL is received via a browser provided on a display of a computing device. A shortened URL is generated to represent the received URL. A determination is made as to whether a classification assigned to a web site associated with the shortened URL is valid. Upon determining that the assigned classification is not valid the web site is evaluated in order to assign an updated valid classification to the web site.

In one embodiment a determination may be made as to whether the web site associated with the shortened URL has been previously classified. In addition a determination may be made whether a refresh rate associated with the classification of the web site has expired. The classified web site may be accessed upon determining that the refresh rate has expired. A determination may be made as to whether changes have occurred to the web site. The web site associated with the shortened URL may be reclassified upon detecting changes to the web site.

In one configuration access to the web site associated with the shortened URL may be prevented upon determining that the web site has been assigned a malicious classification. In one example a request may be received to generate the shortened URL to represent the received URL. A notification may be provided that the web site associated with the received URL is malicious.

A computing device configured to provide a secure uniform resource locator URL shortening service is also described. The computing device may include a processor and memory in electronic communication with the processor. The computing device may also include a URL shortening service module configured to receive a URL via a browser provided on a display of the computing device and generate a shortened URL to represent the received URL. The module may be further configured to determine whether a classification assigned to a web site associated with the shortened URL is valid and upon determining that the assigned classification is not valid the module may be configured to evaluate the web site in order to assign an updated valid classification to the web site.

A computer program product for providing a secure uniform resource locator URL shortening service is also described. The computer program product may include a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions thereon. The instructions may include code programmed to receive a URL via a browser provided on a display of the computing device and code programmed to generate a shortened URL to represent the received URL. The instructions may further include code programmed to determine whether a classification assigned to a web site associated with the shortened URL is valid and upon determining that the assigned classification is not valid the instructions may include code programmed to evaluate the web site in order to assign an updated valid classification to the web site.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

While the embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

In computing a uniform resource locator URL is a uniform resource identifier URI that may specify where an identified resource is available and the mechanism for retrieving the resource. An example of the user of URLs is for the addresses of web pages on the World Wide Web. A URL may include some of the following a scheme name e.g. protocol followed by a colon then depending on the scheme a domain name e.g. Internet Protocol IP address a port number and a path of the resource to be fetched of the program to be run. In some instances the syntax of a URL may be difficult for a user to remember because of the length of the URL or for other reasons. URL shortening is a technique on the World Wide Web in which a URL may be made substantially shorter in length. This may involve using hypertext transfer protocol HTTP redirect on a domain name that is short to link to a web page which has a long URL.

Existing URL shortening services however suffer from several drawbacks. For example existing services may obfuscate URLs with limited or no protection against malware. When a URL is shortened a user may not know where that shortened link redirects to and what the actual web page content includes. URLs linked to websites hosting malicious content may be shortened and presented to users as an obfuscated URL. If a user were to inadvertently click on a shortened link the user could easily be redirected to malicious or phishing content hosted on a remote website.

As another example some existing services may provide blacklist detection of specific URLs or domain sites to prevent users from accessing malicious short URLs. This may easily be circumvented through the use of redirection. A benign URL which redirects to a malicious website may be shortened without detection. When a user accesses the benign shortened URL the user may immediately be redirected to malicious content on a website.

Further the Internet topography is in a constant state of change with malware. Malicious content may be removed or added to websites at a moment s notice. As a result a frequent detection rate for classifying such websites as being malicious or benign may be required in order to prevent false negatives or false positives. This may require a shortening service that constantly updates classification ratings of both existing previously rated shortened URLs and new unknown shortened URLs.

In addition some shortening services rely on violation reports from users. Unfortunately these require human intervention to submit the reports. The URL shortening service of the present systems and methods may be autonomous and may automatically submit unknown or unclassified URLs for analysis. As a result there may be no bottleneck for processing and determining a URL s potential rating.

In one embodiment the present systems and methods provide a secure shortened version of a URL with the appropriate translations back to the original URL and redirection. The present systems and methods may provide a quick efficient URL shortening while protecting users from inadvertently navigating to a malicious website when the shortened URL is translated and redirected.

In one example the server may include a URL shortening service module . The module may generate a shortened version of an original URL associated with a website. The shortened URL and the original URL may be stored in a database for subsequent retrieval by the server . In addition the URL shortening service module may further provide a real time classification of a website associated with a shortened URL. The classification may indicate whether the website includes malicious content such as malware. Details regarding the classification of a website associated with a shortened URL will be explained below.

In one configuration the module may include a receiving module a generating module an analysis module and a monitoring module . The receiving module may receive an original URL. The generating module may then generate a shortened version of the original URL that was received by the receiving module . In one embodiment the receiving module may include a data field. A user may enter the original URL into the data field. The generating module may generate a shortened version of the original URL entered into the data field. A user may then enter or otherwise access the shortened version of the URL in a web browser in order to access the associated web site.

In one example the analysis module may analyze and evaluate a web site associated with a shortened URL. The analysis module may determine certain characteristics of the web site to classify the web site. The classification may indicate that the web site include malicious content non malicious content etc. In one embodiment if a web site is classified as including malicious content a user may receive a notification after entering a shortened version of the URL that is associated with the web site. The notification may include a message to the user that the requested web site associated with the shortened URL has been classified as a malicious web site. The monitoring module may continue e.g. to monitor the web site for changes to the web site s content. If the content is changed or if a pre determined amount of time has passed the analysis module may reanalyze the web site e.g. to determine whether the previous classification assigned to the web site is still valid. For example the analysis module may initially assign a web site a malicious classification because of the content included on the web site. The content however may be removed at a time subsequent to the analysis module assigning the initial classification. As a result the analysis module may reanalyze the web site and may assign a different classification that indicates that the web site associated with a shortened URL is now a non malicious web site.

In one configuration the monitoring module may include refresh rate . The refresh rate may be configurable and may indicate when a web site previously classified by the classification module is to be reanalyzed and if needed reclassified. For example a user may submit an original URL associated with a web site. The URL shortening service module may generate a shortened version of the original URL. The web site associated with the shortened URL may be initially analyzed and assigned a classification depending on the content and characteristics of the web site. The monitoring module may continuously monitor the web site and when the refresh rate expires the analysis module may reanalyze the web site. If the content or other characteristics of the web site have changed since the web site was assigned the initial classification the classification module may assign a different classification to the web site. The monitoring module may continue to monitor the web site and when the refresh rate expires again the analysis module may again analyze the web site and if necessary the classification module may assign a different classification to the web site depending on the analysis performed by the analysis module. As a result real time classification of web sites associated with shortened URLs may be performed.

In one example a URL may be received . For example a user may type or enter the URL in a data field. A shortened URL may be generated to represent the received URL. In other words an abbreviated URL may be generated that may represent the longer received URL. In one configuration a first determination may be made as to whether a web site associated with the shortened URL and the original received URL has been previously classified. If it is determined that the web site has not been previously classified the web site associated with the shortened URL may be evaluated . A classification may then be assigned to the web site based on the evaluation. If however it is determined that the web site has been previously classified a second determination may be made as to whether the previous classification assigned to the web site is still valid. If the previous classification is still valid the same classification may be assigned to the web site associated with the shortened URL. If however it is determined that the previous classification is not valid the web site may be evaluated and a new classification may be assigned to the web site associated with the shortened URL.

In one configuration a determination may be made as to whether a refresh rate has expired. If it is determined that the refresh rate has not expired the method may continue to determine whether the refresh rate has expired. If however it is determined that the refresh rate has expired a previously classified web site associated with a shortened URL may be accessed . A determination may be made as to whether changes have been detected on the web site since the time the web site was previously classified. If it is determined that no changes have been detected on the web site the method may return to determine whether the refresh rate has expired. If however it is determined that the refresh rate has expired the web site may be reclassified based on the detected changes. The reclassification of the web site associated with the shortened URL may be stored in a database.

In one example a shortened URL may be received . The shortened URL may be received by the URL shortening service module via the web browser . The shortened URL may be associated with a web site. A determination may be made as to whether the web site is a malicious web site. If it is determined that the web site is a malicious web site access to the web site may be prevented . For example a warning message or other type of notification may be provided to a user indicating that the requested web site associated with the provided shortened URL is a malicious web site. If however it is determined that the web site is not a malicious web site access to the web site may be allowed . For example the requested web site may be displayed to the user via the web browser .

In one configuration a request to generate a shortened URL from an original URL may be received . A shortened URL may be generated from the original URL. A determination may be made as to whether a web site associated with the original URL and the shortened URL is a malicious web site. If it is determined that the web site is malicious web site a notification may be provided indicating that the web site associated with the newly generated shortened URL is a malicious web site. If however it is determined that the web site is not a malicious web site a notification may be provided indicating that the web site associated with the newly generated shortened URL is not a malicious web site.

In one configuration a request to generate a shortened URL from an original URL may be received . A shortened URL may be generated from the original URL. In one embodiment a determination may be made as to whether a web site associated with the original URL and the shortened URL is unknown. In other words a determination may be made as to whether the web site has been previously classified. If it is determined that the web site is unknown i.e. has not been previously classified a notification may be provided indicating that the classification of the web site associated with the newly generated shortened URL is unknown. The web site may be placed in a queue to be analyzed and classified. If however it is determined that the web site is known i.e. has been previously classified the method may return to receive another request to generate a shortened URL from an original URL.

As previously described there is currently no solution available for URL shortening that provides a reliable detection and protection against malware and phishing websites obfuscated behind shortened URLs. In one embodiment the present systems and methods may prevent users from being exposed to obfuscated shortened URLs that may redirect the users to a web site that includes malicious content. As a result users may safely utilize a URL shortening service without worrying about the content behind the shortened URL. The URL shortening service module of the present systems and methods may provide close to real time classification ratings of shortened URLs and their associated web sites while providing continual updates to these classifications. Additionally as explained above the present systems and methods may allow for the submission of unknown web sites i.e. unclassified web sites for analysis of malware.

In one configuration when a long URL i.e. an original URL is submitted for shortening the classification rating for the web site associated with the long URL may be checked and constantly updated. If the affiliated web site were at one point malicious and then later benign the URL shortening service module may refresh the previous rating in a timely manner and vice versa . If the rating of the web site were unknown the web site may be queued up for eventual analysis and classification. This may provide a frequent detection rate for classifying web sites and providing a high efficacy.

Due to the URL shortening service module s dynamic nature of keeping ratings fresh the ratings provided by the module may not fall victim to static sources such as a blacklist of malicious URLs which may become outdated or circumvented completely via redirection. This results in blacklist providing a poor efficacy.

In one configuration the URL shortening service module may be reachable over HTTP s . There may be no extraneous network configurations or private secure networks to restrict user access. Any user with Internet access may utilize the module . The URL shortening service module may authenticate users that attempt to use the services provided by the module . This may allow users to confidentially post and review shortened URLs from a trusted source.

The URL shortening service module may also utilize the Internet security service by leveraging the existing server side infrastructures provided in certain platforms such as but not limited to the Shasta platform. In one embodiment the Shasta platform may provide a scheduling of URLs for malware analysis while also serving up URL requests to determine the classification rating. The module may also store additional phishing classifications for web sites in the database .

In one configuration the URL shortening service module may provide a web interface hosted on a remote server for shortening long full URLs and looking up translating short URLs for safe secure redirection to the corresponding full URL. The module may look up the shortened URLs that are stored in the database .

Further the URL shortening service module may provide a secondary web service application programmers interface API . This may allow external third parties to utilize the URL shortening service module within their own services and or application software such as but not limited to Twitter Facebook or Blogger . The API may be accessible over HTTP and may adhere to the Representation State Transfer REST architecture style.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is generally the main memory into which the operating system and application programs are loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components or devices. For example the sequence recognizing module to implement the present systems and methods may be stored within the system memory . Applications resident with computer system are generally stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit or other storage medium. Additionally applications can be in the form of electronic signals modulated in accordance with the application and data communication technology when accessed via network modem or interface .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present systems and methods. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . The operation of a computer system such as that shown in is readily known in the art and is not discussed in detail in this application. Code to implement the present disclosure can be stored in computer readable medium such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 UNIX Linux or another known operating system.

Moreover regarding the signals described herein those skilled in the art will recognize that a signal can be directly transmitted from a first block to a second block or a signal can be modified e.g. amplified attenuated delayed latched buffered inverted filtered or otherwise modified between the blocks. Although the signals of the above described embodiment are characterized as transmitted from one block to the next other embodiments of the present systems and methods may include modified signals in place of such directly transmitted signals as long as the informational and or functional aspect of the signal is transmitted between blocks. To some extent a signal input at a second block can be conceptualized as a second signal derived from a first signal output from a first block due to physical limitations of the circuitry involved e.g. there will inevitably be some attenuation and delay . Therefore as used herein a second signal derived from a first signal includes the first signal or any modifications to the first signal whether due to circuit limitations or due to passage through other circuit elements which do not change the informational and or final functional aspect of the first signal.

With reference to computer system modem network interface or some other method can be used to provide connectivity from each of client computer systems and to network . Client systems and are able to access information on storage server A or B using for example a web browser or other client software not shown . Such a client allows client systems and to access data hosted by storage server A or B or one of storage devices A N B N N or intelligent storage array . depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data but the present systems and methods are not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

Furthermore while various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present systems and methods and their practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the present systems and methods and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or an as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

