---

title: Ping server
abstract: Techniques and systems are described that assist in predicting, diagnosing, and/or managing an incident in a utility service area. A communication system is provided in the service area to communicate with nodes of the service area. Nodes of the service area may communicate with the communication system using a variety of different communication technologies and/or communication protocols. In some instances, the communication system may detect a communication technology and/or a communication protocol used by a node.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08928489&OS=08928489&RS=08928489
owner: Avista Corporation
number: 08928489
owner_city: Spokane
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110208
---
Traditionally service calls for power outages and other power problems have been diagnosed in a similar manner. A customer experiences an event the customer calls in the event to the power utility and a crew is dispatched from the utility to determine the source of the problem. Unfortunately it can be expensive to physically send a crew to a site for every diagnostic. This is also the traditional model for other utility and service providers as well such as cable and satellite television providers telephone service providers water and gas providers and the like. Accordingly the costs of providing these services could be reduced with an automated and or remote diagnostic system.

As part of automating their processes some utilities and other service providers have employed end point devices such as meters for example with an ability to communicate to a mobile or fixed hub or collector. Many of these end point devices are configured to broadcast usage information and the like to the hub using one way communication e.g. Automatic Meter Reading AMR . Some smart end point devices however are also able to receive and respond to limited inquiries from a hub device. Many of the end point devices and hubs capable of one way or two way communication transfer messages using particular technologies and or proprietary communication protocols. For example some devices may communicate via power line carrier while others may use wireless technologies such as cellular Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi or the like. Consequently utilities may use multiple different communication technologies and or protocols across their service areas due to upgrades expansions and the like occurring over the years. Integration of such a heterogeneous network of devices and communication systems can add layers of difficulty to a comprehensive communication scheme and thus complicate an effort to automate the diagnosis of power problems within the service area.

Additionally some utilities and service providers make use of intelligent map systems i.e. geographic information systems GISs that generally provide data as well as graphic displays regarding assets associated with a service area. For example an intelligent map system may graphically show a utility s assets e.g. transformers isolation devices regulators capacitor banks service points etc. on a map like display and store attributes associated to each of these assets in a related database. Attributes may include an operational status e.g. whether the asset is on line or off line etc. a monetary value of the asset specifications of the asset e.g. voltage phase winding configuration current rating etc. and the like. Further the intelligent map system may display the asset in a particular manner e.g. color highlighting line type etc. based on a value of one or more of the attributes associated with the asset. Thus by using an intelligent map system a utility may streamline processes involving access to and updating of information about the utility s service area by utility personnel.

Some utilities and service providers use an intelligent map system to track service calls. For example when a customer calls in an event e.g. a power outage etc. service personnel may change an attribute associated with an asset connected to the event such as a meter transformer service point etc. . Changing the attribute may then result in the asset being displayed in a different manner on the map thereby marking the location of the event on the map. Multiple calls from customers may result in a pattern of marked assets that can help target a physical location to investigate when diagnosing a service area problem. Since such a system relies on customer reports however it may not be timely or accurate. For example customers may not report an event or they may report it inaccurately. Even with accurate reporting such a system may have limitations. For example such a system still 1 is labor and time intensive 2 is reactive rather than proactive possibly resulting in delays in service restoration and 3 does not provide for verification of service restoration since most customers do not call a service provider to report a restoration of service.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

This application describes techniques to assist in predicting diagnosing and or managing an incident in a utility service area.

In one aspect an outage management method includes detecting an incident in a hierarchal service area. At least one node e.g. station device equipment etc. of the service area is identified as being associated with the incident. A preset quantity of nodes of the service area is selected for communication based on the hierarchy of the system and or a physical location of the node s . The selection of nodes may also be made according to an algorithm which may be adjusted based on various factors of the incident and or the service area. The preset quantity of nodes is pinged with the results of the pinging used to determine an appropriate response to the incident. The determined response may then be initiated. In some aspects the pinging includes requesting information from the nodes and or two way communication between the nodes and a communication system.

In one aspect a method includes interrogating nodes to determine communication technologies and or communication protocols used by the nodes. The method may include using a look up table to determine communication information about a node. Implementations also include adjusting the algorithm based on the communication technologies and or communication protocols used by the nodes.

In another aspect a system is implemented that comprises one or more processors memory and modules implemented by the processor s based on instructions stored in the memory. One module may include a detection module configured to detect an incident in a service area. The detection module may also be configured to detect one or more devices associated with the incident. Another module may include a communication module configured to communicate with one or more devices in the service area according to an algorithm. In one embodiment the algorithm directs the system to communicate with one or more devices in the service area in a manner based on the incident and the devices associated with the incident. For example the algorithm may direct the system to communicate with the devices based on a hierarchy of the system based on the capabilities of the devices to communicate with the system and or based on the technologies and or protocols used by the devices. The communication module may be configured to communicate with devices using different or dissimilar communication technologies and or communication protocols. Another module may include an analysis module configured to determine an appropriate response to the incident based on the communication between the communication module and one or more of the devices.

In another aspect the algorithm may include multiple routines directing the system to perform additional operations. For example additional operations may include communicating with additional devices when certain conditions are present or failure responses are received from one or more of the devices. The additional operations may also include recursively tracing the service area along distribution paths to troubleshoot the service area.

While described individually the foregoing aspects are not mutually exclusive and any number of the aspects may be present in a given implementation.

Various embodiments of an example outage management system are disclosed for use by a wide range of utilities and or other service providers e.g. electrical power utilities cable and satellite television providers telephone service providers water and gas providers and the like all referred to herein as utilities . Example embodiments assist utilities in predicting diagnosing and or managing outages or other breaks in service incidents including sub standard or poor quality service. In some embodiments incidents may also include false readings malfunctions and or tampering associated with services. Example embodiments of an outage management system may be partially or fully automated in various implementations with fully automated implementations not requiring human intervention or assistance to perform the predicting diagnosing and or managing.

The application describes a representative environment for implementing an outage management system including an example utility service area with reference to . The example utility service area is described in terms of an electrical power service area for ease of discussion but applies equally to service areas of all utilities and service providers mentioned above and the like. The application then describes an example communication system implemented in a service area with reference to including example components of the communication system. Various technologies that may be used in the implementation of an outage management system are described using examples. Specifically the application describes example implementations of a ping server a device used to communicate with nodes or devices in the service area to implement a partially or fully automated outage management system. The application then describes the management diagnosis process in general terms. Specifics of an example outage management algorithm are described with reference to flow diagrams illustrated in . The example outage management algorithm describes communicating with nodes or devices within the service area according to a progression to enhance detection and processing of an incident in the service area.

Example scenarios illuminating the functions of an example outage algorithm in a practical manner are discussed with reference to . The scenarios walk through examples of how an algorithm may track down and process an outage or similar incident.

As mentioned above the service area is illustrated in to resemble an electrical power service area. This is not intended to be a limitation and is for ease of discussion only. The features and elements disclosed herein with regard to implementations of an outage management system apply equally to any utility or service provider such as those mentioned above. Assets devices equipment end points distribution components and the like within an example electrical power service area as described herein are merely illustrative. Components of other service areas corresponding to other utilities and service providers may also be used. For example distribution lines shown in and discussed below may equally represent electrical power lines water or natural gas pipe fiber optic cables coaxial cables and the like.

In alternate embodiments a service area may include other devices e.g. regulators capacitor banks reclosers meters etc. or may include alternate devices for performing some tasks. For example a cable television service area may include amplifiers repeaters translators decoders and the like. In alternate embodiments the feeds distribution lines laterals and the like as shown in may additionally or alternately include pipes cables trunks fiber optics wire data lines phone lines conductors and so forth.

In one embodiment the communication system is configured to communicate one way or two way with one or more of the nodes e.g. stations devices components equipment etc. of the service area . The communication system may be configured to collect information e.g. usage data telemetry temperature geographical information etc. from various devices within the service area . For example the communication system may be configured to collect usage information from service points A F. In alternate embodiments the communication system may be configured to interrogate one or more elements of the service area and to receive information from the element s based on the interrogation. For example the communication system may query a particular service point E for instance and receive information from the service point E such as a status e.g. on line or off line various power quality measurements voltage current power factor waveform distortion etc. and the like. In an alternate implementation associated with a cable television service the communication system may receive information from a service point E such as signal strength channels received at the location impedance at the service point and the like. Accordingly in various embodiments many if not all of the service points may be configured for two way communication with the communication system . In some embodiments the communication system may be referred to as a ping server relating to one of the communication system s functions of interrogating nodes of the service area . In various embodiments the communication system ping server may be implemented using a computing device including a server or the like as discussed further.

In other implementations the communication system may be configured to communicate with an end user s device to provide information to the user. For example the communication system may be configured to send a text message to a user s mobile telephone send an email to a user s email address leave a voice message at a user provided number send information to an application installed on a user s computing communication device and the like. In one implementation the communication system is configured to notify a user of the status e.g. on line off line low power etc. of a component such as a meter end point device etc. of the service area .

In one implementation the communication system is configured to communicate with the outage management server . Communication with the outage management server may include reporting on elements within the service area including providing status information power quality measurements usage information and the like. Information received from the communications system may be processed for a number of useful purposes including prediction diagnosis and or management of outages and other service incidents within the service area .

An example communication system is illustrated in the schematic drawing of . The example communication system is shown having a processor . While only one processor is shown multiple parallel and or dedicated processors could be used. The example communication system is also shown having an input output module a memory and one or more transceiver s . In various implementations a communication system may include more or less components and remain within the scope of the disclosure. For example in some implementations a communication system may combine various elements or components into a single component or break out various functions into individual components. In some examples the one or more transceiver s may be separate components located within the communication system or may be physically remote but communicatively coupled to the communication system . Further transceiver s may also include separate transmitters and or receivers.

As shown in the memory may include various modules implemented by the processor and based on instructions stored in the memory . For example in an embodiment the memory is communicatively coupled to the processor and contains stored computer executable instructions. When the instructions are executed by the processor the communication system may implement various functional modules. As shown in modules may include a detection module a communication module and or an analysis module . In alternate embodiments fewer or additional modules may be implemented by the processor .

Example modules within a communication system including the detection module the communication module the analysis module and or the input output module may be implemented using any form of computer readable media for example memory in that is accessible by the processor and or the communication system . In one embodiment one or more of the transceiver s may be implemented using a form of computer readable media. Computer readable media may include for example computer storage media and communications media.

Computer readable storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory is an example of computer readable storage media. In some embodiments a communication system may employ multiple memory devices to implement functional modules e.g. modules and or for other purposes. For this discussion single or multiple memory devices are referred to as memory . Additional types of computer readable storage media that may be present include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may accessed by the processor .

In contrast communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Computer readable storage media does not include communication media.

While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject matter also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and the like which perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the innovative techniques can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. personal digital assistant PDA smart phone etc. microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. For example one or more of the processor and or the memory may be located remote from the communication system and or the outage management system . However some if not all aspects of the disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices such as memory for example .

In an embodiment the communication system may communicate with the outage management server the intelligent map system and or the devices and elements of the service area via a network. In alternate embodiments the network may include a network e.g. wired or wireless network such as a system area network or other type of network and can include several nodes or hosts not shown which can be personal computers servers or other types of computers. In addition the network can be for example an Ethernet LAN a token ring LAN or other LAN a Wide Area Network WAN or the like. Moreover such network can also include hardwired and or optical and or wireless connection paths. In an example embodiment the network includes an intranet or the Internet.

In alternate embodiments the communication system may communicate via a wide range of communication technologies and or communication protocols within a network or otherwise. In other words the service area may be a heterogeneous service area made up of a variety of components and elements using a variety of disparate communication technologies and or protocols. Communication technologies as used herein describe the use of defined apparatuses and or defined processes for communication. The apparatuses and processes used in various communication technologies are often formally recognized by standards bodies and other professional and or technical organizations e.g. American National Standards Institute ANSI Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE etc. . For example the communication system may communicate with the outage management server the intelligent map system and or the devices and elements of the heterogeneous service area via communication technologies such as power line carrier technology local area wired network technology e.g. Ethernet technology dial up modem technology cellular technology satellite technology local area wireless network technology e.g. Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi technology wide area wireless network technology e.g. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX technology wireless personal area network technology e.g. Bluetooth technology and or any other known communication infrastructure.

Communication protocols as used herein describe formats and rules for communicating within a communication technology. An example protocol may include a string of lead characters and or ending characters a format for character or bit byte packet arrangement syntax an error check scheme and the like.

As will be discussed in alternate implementations the communication system may communicate with various elements and nodes of the service area using more than one communication technology and or more than one communication protocol. For example the communication system may communicate with one node of the service area using one communication technology and or communication protocol and another node of the service area using another different i.e. disparate communication technology and or different disparate communication protocol. Thus the communication system can be configured to communicate with a node such as a utility service device end point device etc. in the communication technology used by the node and with the communication protocols understood by the node. In various implementations the number and or type of transceivers included in the communication system is determined by communication technologies used by the communication system and or by communication technologies used by nodes of the service area .

In one implementation the communication system is configured to interrogate one or more nodes e.g. utility service devices components etc. of the service area to determine a communication technology and or a communication protocol used by the node. In an implementation the communication system interrogates a node by sending the node a number of inquiries pings using different communication technologies and or protocols. In other implementations the communication system may interrogate a node based on information available to the communication system . For example the communication system may receive some communication technology information and or communication protocol information associated to a node when the node is installed in the service area . In alternate implementations a node being interrogated may respond to the communication system with a message verifying the communication technology and or protocol used by the node.

In an implementation the communication system may reconfigure a communication technology and or a communication protocol that the communication system is using to communicate with a node based on the interrogation. For example in one embodiment the communication system may interrogate multiple nodes of the service area . The communication system may then reconfigure a communication technology and or communication protocol after communicating with a first node and prior to communicating with a second node e.g. reconfigure from WiMAX technology to Bluetooth technology etc. . The communication system may then continue to reconfigure a communication technology and or communication protocol prior to communicating with each additional node based on the communication technology and or communication protocol used by the additional node.

Consequently the communication system is able to communicate with a heterogeneous network of nodes where the nodes use various and disparate communication technologies and or communication protocols including different versions or vintages of a common technology or protocol. For example several nodes of the service area may use cellular technology with some of the nodes using a newer or more recently developed type of cellular technology than others of the nodes. In an example implementation the communication system is able to communicate with the nodes by reconfiguring to accommodate the different versions of cellular technology.

In one implementation the communication system is configured to automatically initiate communication with one or more nodes e.g. utility service devices of the service area to perform maintenance system checks and the like. For example the communication system may initiate communication with one or more nodes to perform one or more of an inventory a status check a power quality audit a validation of installation a maintenance routine an isolation of an incident a diagnosis a validation of restoration of services and the like. In one embodiment the communication system may perform these types of communications according to a maintenance schedule or other preset plan. In an alternate embodiment the communication system may perform such communications randomly upon request upon occurrence of certain events e.g. a reboot wide spread outage etc. .

In one implementation the communication system communicates with the outage management server the intelligent map system and or the devices and elements of the service area the nodes of the service area via the input output module . In an embodiment the input output module includes hardware firmware software and or the like to provide communication with the nodes of the service area via the transceiver s . For example in alternate embodiments the input output module may contain interfaces modems application programming interfaces API network interfaces converters and or the like such that a communication information string formulated by the communication system can be translated and transmitted using one or more of the transceiver s to the intended nodes of the service area using one or more communication technologies. Accordingly in various embodiments the input output module also performs a similar function with regard to communication information received by the transceiver s allowing the received communication information to be processed and understood by the communication system .

In one illustrative example a message is received from an end point device service point by a transceiver via power line carrier technology. The message is then translated by the input output module for processing by the processor . A response may be formulated by the processor translated into multiple formats by the input output module and transmitted to the end point device by power line carrier technology using one transceiver and also transmitted to the outage management server by Ethernet technology using another of the transceivers . In this example the response message is translated by the input output module into a format to be transmitted by power line carrier and understood by an end point device that communicates using power line carrier and also translated by the input output module into a format to be transmitted by Ethernet technology and understood by an outage management server that communicates using Ethernet technology. Thus the input output module provides translation for messages communicated between a node of the service area and the transceiver s of the communication system .

In other examples the input output module may translate a message into multiple formats to be transmitted to multiple end point devices where the end point devices communicate using different communication technologies. For example the input output module may translate a message into a cellular technology format a Wi Fi technology format and a dial up modem technology format for transmission to different end point devices using those technologies. Accordingly messages received from the different end point devices of this example may be translated from those communication technologies by the input output module into a format to be understood and processed by the processor .

In one embodiment the input output module accesses a database and or a look up table for information associating the elements and nodes of the service area with their respective communication technologies and or protocols. In alternate embodiments the database and or look up table is located local or remote to the communication system . In one example the database and or look up table is located on a remote server accessed via a network e.g. the Internet an intranet etc. . In an implementation the database and or look up table is located in the memory . In one embodiment the look up table is populated with information derived from an intelligent map system . Additionally or alternatively the input output module accesses information associating elements and nodes of the service area with their respective communication technologies and or protocols using other methods e.g. software application firmware etc. .

As discussed above and shown in modules implemented by the processor based on instructions stored in the memory may include a detection module a communication module and or an analysis module . In alternate embodiments the communication system may be comprised of fewer or additional modules and perform the discussed techniques within the scope of the disclosure. Further in alternate embodiments one or more of the modules may be remotely located with respect to the communication system . For example a module such as the detection module for example may be located at a remote network location.

If included the detection module provides information to the communication system the outage management server and or the intelligent map system regarding nodes of the service area and or incidents involving the service area . In one implementation the detection module detects an incident associated with a node of the service area . For example the detection module may detect that an electrical meter within an electrical power service area is off line i.e. not energized not communicating etc. . In an embodiment the detection module may detect a transformer and or an electrical circuit associated with the electrical meter. For example the detection module may detect that the electrical meter is on phase A of an identified electrical circuit. Accordingly in some implementations the detection module may trace a circuit or services path upstream from a given point within the service area to identify components above the given point in the hierarchy or downstream from a given point within the service area to identify components below the given point in the hierarchy. In one implementation the detection module may trace the circuit or services path to detect components associated to a detected incident in the service area .

In one implementation the detection module detects information about nodes of the service area via an intelligent map system . In an embodiment the detection module receives information from the intelligent map system regarding an incident within the service area . For example the detection module may receive information from the intelligent map system regarding an incident associated with an identified electrical meter on an identified electrical circuit being fed by an identified transformer on the circuit.

In one embodiment the detection module detects the presence of nodes within the service area . In an embodiment the detection module is configured to detect one or more electrical service devices according to an algorithm as discussed further below. The detection module may also detect various information regarding detected nodes within the service area . The detected information may include a location of the node circuit connection information phase association peer level within the hierarchy and the like. For example in one embodiment the detection module is configured to detect one or more utility service meters within a hierarchal utility service area . Accordingly the detection module may detect a hierarchal structure of the utility service meters with respect to each other and or other nodes within the service area .

In various implementations the detection module may detect a node within the service area and in some embodiments information associated to the node when the node is added to the service area upon initialization of the communication system upon detection of an incident within the service area and the like. For example the detection module may detect a node in a plug and play fashion when the node is installed within the service area . In some embodiments the installation of a node may also include a software installation to a portion of the service area for instance to the communication system . In another example the communication system may perform a start up routine upon initialization that includes a search by the detection module of the service area for connected nodes.

In one implementation the detection module detects a node such as a utility service device added to the service area based on information received from the intelligent map system . In one example the detection module may receive information from the intelligent map system when a node is newly added to the service area . For example the received information may include location information and or hierarchal information of the added node. Thus changes to the service area that are tracked by the intelligent map system may be communicated to the detection module . In one embodiment the detection module may receive information from the intelligent map system while performing a search of the service area for connected nodes for example during initialization of the communication system . In that case the detection module may receive information from the intelligent map system regarding some or all of the nodes that are being tracked by the intelligent map system .

If included the communication module provides communication support for the communication system and the components of the service area . In an implementation the communication module carries out data related communication tasks for the communication system . In various implementations the communication module may store communication algorithms communication technology information communication protocol information communication scripts service area element information and the like.

In some embodiments the communication module is configured to communicate with various electrical service devices including an electrical service meter a transformer a breaker a fuse a recloser a capacitor a relay or a switch. In other embodiments the communication module is configured to communicate with other components devices and the like e.g. gas meter water meter cable television distribution hub etc. in other types of service areas . The communication module may communicate with multiple devices or nodes using one or more communication technologies and or one or more communication protocols that may be disparate from each other. For example the communication module may communicate with multiple utility service meters for example using one or more disparate communication technologies and or one or more disparate communication protocols via the input output module and one or more transceiver s . In alternate embodiments the communication module communicates one way or two way with the multiple nodes and service devices.

In one embodiment the communication module communicates with nodes of the service area according to an algorithm. For example the communication module may communicate with multiple utility service meters as described above according to an arrangement described by the algorithm. In alternate embodiments an algorithm may be stored locally e.g. in memory in the communication module etc. and or stored remotely e.g. stored on a remote server stored on a portable memory storage device etc. .

In various embodiments the algorithm includes one or more routines having steps to be performed by the communication system when communicating with nodes of the service area . In one embodiment the algorithm determines the number of nodes to be contacted and the order that they are to be contacted. In another embodiment the algorithm directs the communication system to communicate with particular nodes of the service area . In one embodiment the algorithm is adjustable depending on the nature of the communication with the components of the service area . In another embodiment the algorithm is adjustable based at least in part on the communication technologies used by the components e.g. utility service meters transformers isolation devices etc. of the service area . In a further embodiment the algorithm may be adjusted by a user. These embodiments and others will be described further.

In one implementation the communication module is configured to automatically initiate communication with one or more components of the service area to perform maintenance system checks and the like. For example in one embodiment the communication module automatically initiates communication with one or more components of the service area such as electrical service devices to perform an inventory a status check a power quality audit a standards compliance check a validation of installation a maintenance routine an isolation of an incident a diagnosis and or a validation of restoration of services. In other embodiments the communication module may automatically initiate communication with one or more nodes of the service area for other purposes for example due to an incident such as a break in service occurring in the service area .

In various embodiments the communication module is capable of performing remote tasks in addition to simply communicating with a node of the service area . For example in an embodiment the communication module is configured to remotely disable services at one or more nodes such as electrical service devices of the service area . In alternate embodiments the communication module is capable of various other tasks such as software installation or upgrades at nodes initializing or rebooting components and the like.

If included the analysis module provides analytical and or logistical support to the communication system . In one embodiment the analysis module determines a response to an incident in the service area based on communication between the communication system and one or more components of the service area . For example if communication between the communication module and one or more components of the service area reveals that an electrical service meter that has been reported to be off line i.e. in a failure state is actually on line i.e. working within preset tolerances the analysis module may determine that an appropriate response to the incident is to close the matter and notify the party reporting the incident that the meter is on line i.e. operating normally within a preset tolerance etc. . A tolerance for example may include a range of values indicating normal operation for a meter or other device and may be preset manually or automatically based on accepted industry standards or the like. Examples of a preset tolerance may include a voltage tolerance a phase or power factor tolerance a distortion tolerance a frequency tolerance a transient event tolerance and the like.

Alternately if communication between the communication module and one or more nodes of the service area reveals that an electrical service meter is off line the analysis module may determine the appropriate crew size repair equipment spare parts and the like to send to the scene to correct the incident. Thus in various implementations the analysis module may provide partially or fully automated responses to incidents based on communications conducted or based on failed communications .

In one implementation the analysis module may notify the communication module to automatically initiate a service call based on the response determined from the analysis module . For example in one implementation the communication module may send a message to the outage management server to dispatch a crew to the scene of the incident. In another implementation the communication module may send a message to a dispatch service or may automatically dispatch a crew to the scene of the incident based on the notification received from the analysis module . In various embodiments the communication module may dispatch a crew using diverse methods including visual and or auditory indicators electronic text or instant messaging automated voice messaging and the like. In one embodiment the communication module dispatches a crew through indications on an intelligent map system .

Additionally in one embodiment the analysis module determines whether the algorithm used by the communication module is to be adjusted. For example in one implementation the analysis module receives information from the detection module regarding a number of nodes or a number of types of nodes within the service area that are capable of two way communication with the communication system . Based on that information the analysis module may determine that the algorithm is to be adjusted. The analysis module may make the determination based on one or more threshold values or based on particular types of nodes or the like. For instance if the detection module determines that 95 of electric service meters and 80 of transformers on an electrical circuit identified as being associated with an incident are capable of two way communication with the communication system the analysis module may determine that the algorithm is to be adjusted. Additionally in various embodiments the analysis module may determine incremental adjustments to the algorithm at various threshold values.

In one embodiment the analysis module may notify a user of the adjustments determined for the algorithm. This notification may be in the form of a message on a display an indicator on an actual or virtual dashboard or the like. Alternately or additionally the analysis module may make the determined adjustments to the algorithm autonomously based on the determinations.

The outage management server is communicatively coupled to the communication system . In an embodiment the outage management server performs outage management functionality for the service area . For example in one embodiment the outage management server formulates a response to an incident within the service area based on communication between the communication system and one or more of the nodes of the service area . The outage management server may perform response formulation in addition to or alternate to the analysis module . In one implementation the outage management server may send a notification to a dispatch service to dispatch a repair crew in response to an incident within the service area . Alternately or additionally the outage management server may direct the communication module to send a message to a dispatch service or to autonomously dispatch a crew as discussed above.

In one implementation the outage management server may provide communication between the communication system and the intelligent map system . For example in some implementations the outage management server may pass information between the communication system and the intelligent map system . For instance the outage management server may notify the communication system of changes to nodes of the service area that are being tracked by the intelligent map system . Accordingly the outage management system may notify the intelligent map system by writing to an attribute database for example when a status changes for a node of the service area e.g. a meter goes off line a transformer is installed a circuit is re routed etc. .

As described above the intelligent map system may be communicatively coupled to the communication system and or the outage management server . Intelligent map system also known as a geographic information system GIS as used herein is a term of art used for a computerized map system that is coupled to a data resource such that items displayed on a graphic portion of the intelligent map system are representative of geocoded data stored in the data resource. Intelligent map systems are generally capable of various data analysis and modeling tasks based on attributes stored for the displayed items. One example of an intelligent map system is ArcGIS from ESRI Products Redlands Calif.

In one embodiment the intelligent map system is configured to update based on communication between the communication system and one or more of the nodes e.g. utility service devices of the service area . In alternate embodiments the intelligent map system receives information regarding such communication through the communication system and or the outage management server . Also as described above the communication system and or the outage management server receive information regarding the service area from the intelligent map system .

In various implementations the intelligent map system may track multiple aspects of the nodes of the service area such as inventory of a utility s assets e.g. transformers isolation devices regulators capacitor banks service points etc. attributes associated to each of these components including operational status whether the asset is on line or off line the monetary value of the component specifications of the component e.g. voltage phase winding configuration current rating etc. and the like. Further the intelligent map system may display the node in a particular manner e.g. color highlighting line type etc. to indicate a value of one or more of the attributes associated with the node. In some embodiments one or more of the informational aspects tracked by the intelligent map system is used by the communication system and or the outage management server for detection prediction and or management of incidents within the service area .

In one embodiment the intelligent map system is configured to update a database comprising communication technology information and or communication protocol information about one or more nodes e.g. utility service devices of the service area . In an embodiment the database is used by the communication system to determine a communication technology and or a communication protocol to use when communicating with a particular node of the service area .

In an embodiment the intelligent map system is configured to be updated based on information received from the nodes such as utility service meters of the service area . In one implementation updating the intelligent map system includes updating the database. For example information received by the communication system while communicating with a node of the service area may be passed to the intelligent map system . In one embodiment the communication module is configured to trigger the intelligent map system to be updated based on a response to an incident within the service area . For example the intelligent map system may indicate an incident associated with a node of the service area and when a response to the incident is formulated and or implemented the intelligent map system is triggered by the communication module to update based on the response.

In various embodiments one or more utility service end points in a service area may have additional capabilities. In one embodiment at least one utility service meter such as a meter in a service area is configurable to receive a request for information from a user and or notify a user of a status of the utility service meter or another meter or node. For example the utility service meter may receive a request via the internet a mobile device or the like and notify the user of a status of a meter or node via email text message and or mobile device application.

In another embodiment a utility service meter of the service area is configurable to notify the communication system when there is a loss of power at utility service meter. This may be accomplished using a battery or solar powered radio or the like installed at the site of the meter. In an alternate embodiment the meter may send the notification when there is a minimum voltage threshold measured at the meter.

Referring to the illustrations of and the flow diagram of an example management diagnosis process is described. For example the example management diagnosis process may be used by an outage management system . Descriptions of embodiments include examples of devices types of communication and other particulars. However the descriptions are for ease of understanding and are not intended to be limiting. Other suitable devices types of communication and the like may be used without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

At block of an example outage management system such as outage management system detects an incident in the service area . In various embodiments detecting an incident includes the outage management system becoming informed notified or otherwise made aware of the existence of an incident or a potential incident etc. in the service area. In various implementations the service area is a hierarchal service area for electrical power distribution as discussed above. In alternate implementations the service area may include one or more of a water distribution service area a natural gas distribution service area a cable television distribution service area or one or more of other types of service areas as also discussed above e.g. telephone service satellite entertainment data service etc. .

In one embodiment the outage management system detects an incident when a notice e.g. telephone call instant message etc. is received from a user e.g. customer resident etc. of the service area reporting an incident. In an alternate embodiment the outage management system detects an incident when the communication system receives information from one or more elements of the service area regarding the incident e.g. outage substandard service etc. within the service area . In one example the communication system may receive notice of an incident from a utility service meter capable of one way or two way communications with the communication system . In another example the communication system may receive a notification of the incident from one or more other nodes or devices within the system such as a service point A F a transformer A D an isolation device a substation or the like.

In an alternate embodiment the outage management system may receive a notification of the incident from an intelligent map system . For example the intelligent map system may indicate an incident and communicate the incident to the communication system and or the outage management server after being updated based on information received from a customer call information received from an element or node of the service area or the like. For example in one implementation the outage management system may detect an incident in the service area by polling a database linked to the intelligent map system . In alternate embodiments the outage management system may poll the database randomly periodically or at other intervals e.g. user defined intervals intervals based on statistics etc. . Alternately or additionally the outage management system may poll the database in response to a request by a user in response to receiving a notification of an incident and or other events. Once the outage management system discovers a reported incident in the database the incident may be cross referenced to one or more nodes of the service area based on information about the nodes components devices assets and the like that are stored in the database.

At block the outage management system identifies one or more nodes of the service area as being associated with the incident detected. In various embodiments identifying an node includes the outage management system becoming informed notified or otherwise made aware of the association of a node to the incident or a potential incident etc. . In various embodiments the nodes of the service area that may be identified by the outage management system as being associated with an incident may include one or more of a utility service meter a transformer a breaker a fuse a recloser a capacitor a relay or a switch. Additionally or alternately the nodes may include one or more of service points A F transformers A D isolation devices substation or the like. In alternate embodiments the nodes may include other components devices assets or elements of a service area e.g. meters valves regulators amplifiers repeaters etc. .

In one embodiment at least one node may be associated with the incident based on reports received from users customers and the like. For example a homeowner may report that his home has no electric power. In another embodiment a node may be associated with the incident based on communication received by the communication system from one or more elements of the service area as discussed above and the like. For example the communication system may receive a notification from a meter at a service point that the voltage at the meter has dropped beyond a threshold level.

In an implementation the identified node s associated with the incident represent a starting point for an investigation i.e. prediction diagnosis of the incident. For example instead of a utility sending a repair crew to the location of the identified node s to investigate the incident an example outage management system investigates the service area to determine an appropriate response and an appropriate location if any to dispatch a crew.

In an embodiment the investigating includes communicating with one or more nodes of the service area . At block the outage management system for example using communication system selects a preset quantity of nodes of the service area for pinging. For example in one embodiment the communication system selects the node s identified in block for pinging. In some embodiments results of communication with the identified nodes from block may determine whether further pinging of nodes is needed.

As shown in blocks through may be performed in some embodiments as alternative operations. These alternative operations may be performed when the components of the service area use multiple communication technologies and or protocols when the communication system has a capability of determining communication technologies and or protocols used by various components of the service area and the like.

At block the communication system determines a communication technology and or a communication protocol used by the node s identified in block . In various embodiments the communication system determines the communication technology and or communication protocol by referring to information populated in a look up table as described above. In other embodiments the communication system determines the communication technology and or communication protocol by inquiring with the node s for example.

In one embodiment the communication system interrogates the identified node s based on information available to the communication system . For example the communication system may receive some communication technology information and or communication protocol information associated with a node when the node is installed in the service area . In alternate implementations a node being interrogated may respond to the communication system with a message verifying the communication technology and or protocol used by the component.

In an embodiment the communication system validates the determined communication technology and or communication protocol prior to sending an information request to the identified node s . In one implementation the validating includes various types of communicating with the node s . For example the communication system may send the identified node s a number of inquiries pings using different communication technologies and or protocols.

At block the communication system sends an information request to the identified node s based on the determined communication technology and or communication protocol. In some embodiments the communication system performs one way or two way communication with the identified node s .

In various embodiments communication with the identified node s may include taking a reading of information available at the node s receiving unsolicited information from the node s further interrogating the node s receiving a reply from the node s based on the interrogation carrying on a two way conversation with the node s and the like. As part of the communication the communication system may receive information from the node s indicating that the node s are on line off line operational experiencing an incident of some sort e.g. break in service poor quality of service as compared to one or more threshold values and the like. In one embodiment the communication system may interpret a lack of a response from a node as a failure at the node.

Additionally the communication system may receive associated information about the identified node s or other nodes devices components etc. as part of the communication with the node s . For example the communication system may receive from one or more nodes or components information associating the node s and or other node s with one or more electrical phases routes or circuits of the service area . In other examples the communication system may receive information including power status or power quality at the node s and or the other node s geographical location information regarding the node s and or the other node s and the like.

In one implementation the communication system receives incident information from one or more nodes or components without requesting the incident information without interrogating the components of the service area or the like. For example in one embodiment service points A F may broadcast incident information as it occurs notifying the communication system of a problem. For instance a service point may autonomously broadcast a low voltage condition an intermittent break in service or the like. In other embodiments service points A F or other components in the service area may broadcast incident information as a last gasp prior to going off line in the event of a break in service. Alternately or additionally a service point or other component may broadcast a restoration of service including a restoration of fully operational service as measured against one or more threshold values for example .

At block the communication system selects subsequent node s of the service area for pinging or performing one way or two way communication. For example the communication system may selectively poll the service area . In one embodiment the communication system selects a preset quantity of nodes based on an algorithm where the algorithm is based on one of hierarchy and or physical location of the node s associated with the incident and or one or more other nodes or components within the service area . For example the communication system may select different sets of nodes for polling depending on where a node associated to the incident is located in relation to other nodes within the hierarchy of the service area . Additionally the communication system may select different sets of nodes for polling depending on where a node component associated to the incident is physically located within the service area . These and other variations are discussed further in following sections.

In an embodiment the communication system selects subsequent nodes and polls the service area based on any communication held with the node s identified at block . In other words the communication system may determine to communicate with one or more subsequent nodes or components based on a reply or lack of a reply or information received from a first node or an initial set of nodes i.e. components communicated with. For example in one embodiment the communication system selectively polls the service area when a failure response is received from a first component communicated with.

In various embodiments pinging or polling a subsequent node includes one or more of taking a reading of information available at the subsequent node receiving unsolicited information from the subsequent node interrogating the subsequent node receiving a reply from the subsequent node based on an interrogation carrying on a two way conversation with the subsequent node and the like. In one embodiment the pinging or polling comprises performing two way communication with at least one of the preset quantity of nodes or components.

In various embodiments the preset quantity of nodes selected for polling may be the same nodes or different nodes to those previously communicated with in block . In various implementations the preset quantity may be one or more nodes and may include all possible nodes in the service area . In one embodiment at least one of the nodes of the preset quantity of nodes is an electrical service device configured for electrical power distribution within the service area . In one embodiment the subsequent node s include one or more of a utility service meter a transformer a breaker a fuse a recloser a capacitor a relay or a switch. In one embodiment the preset quantity is user adjustable. For example a user may determine a preset quantity of nodes for the communication system to communicate with based on the physical layout of the service area the logical connection of the nodes or components and the like.

At block the communication system discovers one or more subsequent communication technologies and or one or more subsequent communication protocols used by the subsequent nodes i.e. stations devices components etc. of the service area . This allows the communication system to communicate with each selected node according to the communication technology and or communication protocol used by the node. In various embodiments the communication system discovers the subsequent communication technologies and or subsequent communication protocols by referring to information populated in a look up table inquiring with the node s and the like.

At block the algorithm is adjusted based on the communication technologies and or the communication protocols discovered. For example the algorithm may direct the communication system to communicate with a different quantity of nodes of the service area when power line carrier technology is used by nodes selected for pinging than when a wireless network technology is used by the nodes selected for pinging based on bandwidth issues of the technologies.

At block the communication system sends an information request ping to the preset quantity of nodes. In one embodiment the communication system sends the information request based on the adjusted algorithm. In an embodiment the communication system performs one way or two way communication with the preset quantity of nodes based on subsequent communication technologies and or subsequent communication protocols discovered for example at block .

In an embodiment the communication system validates a communication technology and or a communication protocol with a subsequent node prior to sending an information request to the node as discussed previously with respect to block . In alternate implementations a node may respond to the communication system with a message verifying the communication technology and or protocol used by the node.

In one embodiment the communication system formulates one or more command profiles based on the one or more communication protocols discovered and stores the one or more command profiles for recurring use. For example the communication system may formulate a command profile that includes a string of lead characters and or ending characters a format for character or bit byte packet arrangement an error check scheme and the like for protocols discovered to be used by the nodes. Formulated command profiles may be stored for example in memory for later use when communicating with a particular node or with other nodes using the same communication profile.

In one embodiment the communication system performs two way communication with one or more subsequent nodes of the service area according to the algorithm when a failure response is received from the first node communicated with for example a node identified in block and a failure response is received from at least one other node of the service area . In one embodiment the communication system interprets a failure response to include a failure of a node to respond.

The communication system may make a determination of which of the nodes of the service area to communicate with based on the hierarchy of the service area and or a number of nodes physically located at an identified portion of the service area . For example in an embodiment the communication system performs two way communication with one or more subsequent nodes of the service area according to the algorithm when a quantity of nodes associated with the hierarchy of one or more nodes of the preset quantity of nodes and or a quantity of nodes at the physical location of the preset quantity of nodes is less than a threshold quantity.

At block the communication system receives results a reply from one or more of the preset quantity of nodes e.g. stations devices components etc. based on the pinging. In one embodiment information is received from one or more nodes using one or more communication technologies and or one or more communication protocols. For example the communication system may receive multiple replies from multiple nodes pinged. One or more communication technologies and or communication protocols may be used by the multiple nodes to reply to the communication system .

At block the communication system and or the outage management server determines a response to the incident based on the results received from communicating with nodes and or replies or lack thereof from the nodes.

At block the communication system and or the outage management server initiate a response to the incident. In one embodiment an analysis component of the communication system such as the analysis module determines and initiates a response to the incident. In various embodiments initiating a response to the incident may include sending notifications to various parties e.g. users homeowners maintenance crews etc. initiating a service call to a physical location of an identified node dispatching a maintenance crew to an incident site updating or annotating an intelligent map system and the like. In one embodiment the communication system notifies a user of a status of the incident via one or more of email text message mobile device application e.g. smart phone application and the like and so forth.

In one embodiment the communication system initiates a service call associated with a physical location of a first component communicated with when a response is received from at least one other component indicating that the other component is operating within a preset tolerance i.e. a normal operational state . For example when the communication system receives a failure response from a first component the communication system may communicate with another similar component such as a meter on the same route or circuit. If the other component replies that it is operating within a preset tolerance the communication system may then initiate a service call to the first meter s location. Initiating a service call or other response to an incident may include updating an intelligent map system sending a notification to a triage service sending a notification to a dispatch service and the like.

In one embodiment the communication system may close the incident when the results received from communicating with nodes include an indication that at least the first identified node is on line i.e. normally operational operating within a preset tolerance etc. . These and other scenarios are discussed further in a following section.

In various embodiments as described above and as will be illustrated in scenarios that follow an algorithm may be used for example by the communication system to select nodes e.g. stations devices components etc. of the service area to communicate with and or to determine a process by which the nodes will be communicated with. In another embodiment the algorithm may be used to detect devices in the service area .

In one implementation the algorithm is adjustable. In various embodiments the algorithm may be adjusted partially or fully automatically and or the algorithm may be adjusted by a user. In multiple embodiments the algorithm may be adjusted based on various occurrences which are illustrated in the scenarios that follow. By way of summary some of the occurrences are listed here. This listing is not intended to be exhaustive and other embodiments are contemplated whereby the algorithm may be adjusted and remain within the scope of the disclosure.

In one embodiment the algorithm may be adjusted based at least in part on results of communication between one or more of the components of the service area and the communication system . In another embodiment the algorithm may be adjusted based on a communication technology and or a communication protocol used by one or more of the components of the service area . In another embodiment the algorithm may be adjusted based on a bandwidth a capacity and or signal strength of one or more of the communication technologies used by the components of the service area .

In another embodiment the algorithm may be adjusted based on a quantity of components at an identified logical and or physical location within the service area . In a further embodiment the algorithm may be adjusted based on capabilities of components of the service area to communicate with the communication system . In another embodiment the algorithm may be adjusted based on the types of components or devices present or detected in the service area . For example the algorithm may be adjusted to a first configuration when a first type of component of the utility service area is capable of two way communication the algorithm may be adjusted to a second configuration when a second type of component of the utility service area is capable of two way communication and the algorithm may be adjusted to a third configuration when the first type of component of the utility service area and the second type of component of the utility service area are both capable of two way communication. Further the algorithm may be adjusted to a subsequent configuration with the addition of each subsequent type of component of the utility service area that is capable of two way communication.

In various implementations the algorithm may include a number of routines with each routine including a number of steps.

Descriptions of embodiments of example scenarios described herein include examples of devices types of communication and other particulars. However the descriptions are for ease of understanding and are not intended to be limiting. Other suitable devices types of communication and the like may be used without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

In this example scenario it is assumed that an incident has been detected as described above and that the incident is associated as also described above with meter D of . Referring to at block of algorithm a first meter associated with an incident is pinged for example by the communication system . Accordingly in this example scenario meter D is pinged. In one embodiment the pinging comprises performing two way communication with the first meter.

At block the communication system looks to see if a response is received from the first meter. If a response is received from the first meter and the response indicates that the first meter is on line meaning that the meter is operating within a preset tolerance for example the voltage at the meter is within normal ranges then the communication system cancels or closes a response to the incident at block . Canceling or closing the response may include sending a message to one or more users including a customer of the first meter operators maintenance personnel and the like notifying the parties of the closure. Canceling the response may also include updating an intelligent map system such as intelligent map system .

In one embodiment a poor response or no response received from the first meter is interpreted by the communication system as a failure response. A poor response may include a response indicating a power quality event that exceeds a preset threshold such as an over voltage an under voltage a phase angle deviation a waveform distortion a frequency deviation a power factor deviation or a transient waveform event.

If a failure response is received from the first meter then the communication system looks to see if there are any more meters associated with fed from the transformer feeding the first meter also described as the first transformer at block . In this example scenario it is assumed that no response is received from meter D. The communication system interprets the lack of response from meter D as a failure response and so the communication system looks to see if there are any more meters associated with the transformer feeding meter D. Meter D is associated with transformer D since meter D is fed receives electric power from transformer D. As shown in there are two other meters D and D associated with transformer D.

If there had been no other meters associated with transformer D then the algorithm would direct via block the communication system to go to block of the flow diagram on for further directions.

However since there are other meters associated with transformer D the communication system at block pings a second meter on the transformer D. In one embodiment the pinging comprises performing two way communication with the second meter. In alternate embodiments the algorithm may direct the communication system to ping any number of meters associated with the first transformer. Here the communication system pings either or both of meters D and D.

At block the communication system looks to see if there is a response from the second meter pinged. If no response or a poor response is received from the second meter pinged either of meters D and D then the communication system proceeds to block of for further directions.

Alternately if a response is received from the second meter indicating that the second meter is operating within a preset tolerance is on line then the communication system declares a service incident at the first meter D . Declaring a service incident by the communication system may include sending a notice to one or more users operators maintenance personnel incident response systems and the like that service is indicated at the first meter. Declaring a service incident may also include updating an intelligent map system such as intelligent map system . In some embodiments declaring a service incident may include dispatching a crew to the location of the first meter assembling a list of tools or parts to take to the location of the first meter and the like.

In an alternative embodiment of the algorithm the algorithm is adjusted based on nodes of the service area that are capable of communicating with the communication system . For example in one embodiment the algorithm is adjusted when transformers in the service area are capable of communicating with the communication system .

In such an embodiment the communication system pings the first transformer associated to the first meter when a failure response is received from the first meter. For example at block of an alternative scenario instead of looking to see if there are more meters on the first transformer D after receiving a failure response from the meter D the communication system pings transformer D.

Accordingly the communication system declares a service incident at the first meter D when a failure response is received from the first meter D and a response is received from the first transformer D indicating that the first transformer D is operating within a preset tolerance operating normally . Alternately the communication system proceeds to block of for further directions when no response or a poor response is received from the first transformer D .

In various embodiments algorithm is performed by the communication system after performing algorithm and receiving failure responses from one or more of the nodes pinged. For example algorithm may be considered to be a second and or a third routine of algorithm where examples are given in example scenario two and example scenario three . In alternate embodiments algorithm may be performed exclusive of algorithm or prior to algorithm .

Algorithm describes a process that may include recursive operations for at least part of the algorithm depending on the results of some of the included operations . For ease of description some terms used herein are defined for the purposes of this application in order to describe the recursive operations. For example during a recursive operation the algorithm determines whether a service incident is to be declared at a particular node e.g. site device component etc. of the service area . Accordingly the particular node may be tagged i.e. indicated labeled etc. as the target device for one or more iterations of a recursive operation.

Operations may be referred to as being performed upstream or downstream from a particular node. In general upstream indicates in a direction towards a source of power water gas etc. and downstream indicates in a direction away from the source. The algorithm may direct operations to be performed relative to a particular node or from the point of view of a particular node. Such a node may be considered a reference node or a current device meaning the current i.e. present most recent etc. reference for an operation. The current device reference device may change at least once during a single iteration of a recursive operation. Since the algorithm proceeds in a generally upstream manner a device that is at a next higher level in a hierarchy of the service area often becomes a current device during recursive operations.

At block a current device is tagged as a target device. In other words the present node at the time is tagged as a target to determine if a service incident is to be declared at that node. In the example scenario since the communication system received a failure response from meters D and or either of D D investigation of the incident begins at the transformer feeding the meters D D transformer D . Accordingly transformer D is the current device and is tagged as a target device.

Still at block the communication system traces the circuit to an upstream isolation device. In various embodiments tracing the circuit includes looking upstream from the target device along the connecting paths towards the source until an isolation device is encountered. For the purposes of this application an isolation device includes any device capable of breaking and or making a connection to the target device from the source. For example an isolation device is capable of removing the supply from and or replacing the supply to the target device. Examples of isolation devices include switches breakers fuses reclosers valves disconnects and the like. As shown in the circuit may be traced from the transformer D along the lateral R and to the isolation device R. This assumes that transformer D does not include an isolation device. In alternate embodiments one or more of the transformers may include an isolation device. 

At block the communication system looks to see if there is a transformer downstream of the isolation device but not past downstream of the target device. As shown in there are two transformers F and G downstream of isolation device R and neither is downstream of transformer D.

If there had been no transformers downstream of the isolation device R but not past downstream of the target device transformer D then the communication system would be directed by algorithm to return to block via block . At block the algorithm returns to block if the end of the circuit has not been reached. If the end of the circuit has been reached i.e. the circuit has been traced to an origin then the algorithm terminates at block . With a return to block the isolation device R would be tagged as the target device since it is now the current device and the communication system would trace the circuit further upstream of isolation device R to the next isolation device RQ on feeder P as discussed in example scenario three below.

However since there are transformers F and G downstream of isolation device R and neither is downstream of transformer D the algorithm continues at block . At block the communication system pings at least one meter associated with at least one transformer downstream from the upstream isolating device. In the example scenario communication system pings at least one of meters B B and C.

At block the communication system looks to see if there is a response from the meter s pinged. If no response or a poor response is received from the meter s pinged any of meters B B and C then the communication system proceeds back to block as described above.

Alternately if a response is received from the meter s indicating that the meter s are operating within a preset tolerance are on line then the communication system declares a service incident at block as described above at the target device transformer D .

Accordingly in one embodiment the communication system declares a service incident at the first transformer D when the communication system receives a response from the at least one meter e.g. meters B B and or meter C associated with the at least one transformer e.g. transformers B and or C downstream from the upstream isolating device R indicating that the at least one meter meters B B and or meter C is operating within a preset tolerance.

In example scenario three it is assumed that a failure response is received at the communication system from all components pinged in the previous two scenarios. Alternately example scenario three would also apply as discussed in the previous example scenario two if there were no further meters or transformers downstream from the isolation device R aside from the meters associated with transformer D.

At block a current device is tagged as a target device. In example scenario three the isolation device R is the current device and so it is tagged as the target device. The communication system traces the circuit to an upstream isolation device RQ which becomes the current device.

At block the communication system looks to see if there is a transformer downstream of the isolation device but not past downstream of the target device. As shown in there are no transformers downstream of isolation device RQ that are not downstream of isolation device R. Thus the algorithm returns to block via block since the circuit continues upstream tagging isolation device RQ as the target device and tracing the circuit to a subsequent upstream isolation device. Here the subsequent upstream isolation device is distribution point which becomes the current device.

At block the communication system looks to see if there is a transformer downstream of the subsequent isolation device distribution point but not past downstream of the target device RQ . As shown in there is one transformer A downstream of distribution point that is not also downstream of isolation device RQ.

At block the communication system pings at least one meter A A associated with at least one transformer A downstream from the subsequent upstream isolating device distribution point .

At block the communication system looks to see if there is a response from the meter s pinged. If no response or a poor response is received from the meter s pinged either of meters A A then the communication system proceeds back to block as described above. In the case of example scenario three the investigation may then proceed upstream of the distribution point .

In alternate embodiments the communication device repeats the operations of the third routine algorithm for example as described in example scenario three when there are no other meters associated with a transformer downstream from a subsequent upstream isolating device or there is a failure response from at least one meter associated with a transformer downstream from the subsequent upstream isolating device.

Additionally or alternatively the algorithm directs the communication system to recursively perform operations of the third routine until a service incident is declared at a target device.

At block the communication system declares a service incident at the target device RQ when a response is received from at least one meter either of meters A A associated with at least one transformer A downstream from the subsequent upstream isolating device RQ indicating that at least one meter either of meters A A associated with at least one transformer A downstream from the subsequent upstream isolating device RQ is operating within a preset tolerance.

In an alternative embodiment of the algorithm the algorithm is adjusted based on nodes of the service area that are capable of communicating with the communication system . For example in one embodiment the algorithm is adjusted when transformers in the service area are capable of communicating with the communication system . In another embodiment the algorithm is adjusted when isolation devices are capable of communicating with the communication system . In a further embodiment the algorithm is adjusted based on other devices of the service area associated to an upstream isolation device or a subsequent upstream isolation device that are capable of communicating with the communication system .

In such embodiments the communication system may ping one or more of the transformers B and C associated to the upstream isolation device R when a failure response is received from the meters associated with the target transformer or from the target transformer D . Thus the communication system declares a service incident at the target device D when the communication system receives a response from one of the transformers B and C associated to the upstream isolation device R indicating that the transformers B and C are operating within a preset tolerance i.e. operating normally .

Alternately or additionally the communication system may ping an isolation device R associated with the target transformer D . Thus the communication system declares a service incident at the target device D when the communication system receives a response from an upstream isolation device R indicating that the upstream isolation device R is operating within a preset tolerance i.e. operating normally .

Further the communication system may ping one or more other devices associated with an upstream isolation device R or a subsequent upstream isolation device RQ associated with the target transformer D . In various embodiments the other devices associated with the upstream isolation device R or the subsequent upstream isolation device RQ may include one or more of a transformer a breaker a fuse a recloser a capacitor a relay or a switch. Thus the communication system declares a service incident at the target device D when the communication system receives a response from one or more of the other devices associated with the upstream isolation device R or subsequent upstream isolation device RQ indicating that the one or more of the other devices associated with the upstream isolation device R or a subsequent upstream isolation device RQ is operating within a preset tolerance i.e. operating normally .

Accordingly one skilled in the art will recognize the variety of adjustments that may be made to the algorithm depending on the number and type of devices or nodes in the service area that are capable of communicating with the communication system including those capable of two way communication with the communication system for example via the communication module .

While various discreet embodiments have been described throughout the individual features of the various embodiments may be combined to form other embodiments not specifically described. The embodiments formed by combining the features of described embodiments are also outage management systems .

