---

title: Multi-layer metallic coating for TBC systems
abstract: A coating system for a turbine engine component having a substrate includes a multi-layer bond coat applied to the substrate. The multi-layer bond coat has an oxidation resistant layer and a spallation resistant layer deposited over the oxidation resistant layer. Processes for forming the coating system are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08497028&OS=08497028&RS=08497028
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08497028
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110110
---
The Government of the United States of America may have rights in the present invention as a result of Contract No. N00014 07 C 0503 awarded by the Office of Naval Research.

The present disclosure relates to a coating system for a turbine engine component which includes a multi layer metallic bond coat which includes an oxidation resistant layer and a spallation resistant layer.

Advanced thermal barrier coating systems provide a means for sheltering the structural element i.e. a turbine blade or vane from the highest temperatures in the engine. Metallic bond coats are added to the surface of the substrate to form a reaction product of thermally grown oxide TGO of alumina between the bond coat and the thermal barrier coating topcoat. As superalloy technology advances the maximum use temperature in which these components must operate continues to climb leading both to more efficient operation and increasingly harsh operating conditions.

In accordance with the instant disclosure there is provided a coating system for a turbine engine component having a substrate which coating system broadly comprises a multi layer bond coat applied to said substrate and said multi layer bond coat having an oxidation resistant layer and a spallation resistant layer deposited over said oxidation resistant layer.

Further in accordance with the instant disclosure there is provided a process for forming a coating system on a turbine engine component which broadly comprises the steps of providing a substrate depositing a multi layer bond coating on said substrate wherein said depositing step comprises depositing an oxidation resistant layer and thereafter depositing a spallation resistant layer over said oxidation resistant layer.

Other details of the multi layer metallic coating for thermal barrier coating systems are set forth in the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals depict like elements.

Referring now to the present disclosure relates to a coating system for a turbine engine component such as a turbine vane or blade. The turbine engine component has a substrate which may be formed from a superalloy material such as a nickel based superalloy.

Applied to a surface of the substrate is a bond coat . Unlike typical bond coats formed from a single layer of a MCrAlY material the bond coat is a multi layer coating having an oxidation resistant layer and a spallation resistant layer .

The oxidation resistant layer may comprise a MCrAlY composition such as one having a composition consisting of 20 to 24 wt cobalt 14 to 18 wt chromium 11 to 13.5 wt aluminum 0.1 to 0.4 wt hafnium 0.4 to 0.8 yttrium 0.4 to 0.7 wt silicon balance nickel. The layer may have a thickness in the range of about 0.5 mil to 7 mil.

In accordance with the instant disclosure the surface of the oxidation resistant layer is modified with about 0.25 mil to 7.0 mil of a spallation resistant overlay coating or layer of a different composition. The spallation resistant layer has a composition tailored to form an adherent thermally grown oxide layer TGO . The spallation resistant layer may have a composition consisting of from 10 to 13 wt cobalt from 5.5 to 7.0 wt chromium 3.0 to 6.0 wt tantalum 3.0 to 5.0 wt tungsten 1.1 to 1.7 wt molybdenum 9.0 to 11 wt aluminum 0.2 to 0.6 wt hafnium 0.3 to 0.7 wt yttrium from 0.1 to 0.3 wt silicon from 0.1 to 0.2 wt zirconium and the balance nickel. Alternatively the spallation resistant layer may have a composition consisting of from 11 to 14 wt cobalt from 11 to 14 wt chromium from 7.5 to 9.5 wt aluminum from 0.1 to 0.5 wt hafnium from 0.2 to 0.6 wt yttrium from 0.1 to 0.3 wt silicon from 0.1 to 0.2 wt zirconium and the balance nickel.

The oxidation resistant layer and the spallation resistant layer may each be deposited using a cathodic arc deposition technique which can be single insertion processing or dual insertion metallic coating processing. Following deposition the substrate with the layers and may be subjected to a diffusion heat treatment. The diffusion heat treatment may be up to 32 hours in temperatures ranging from approximately 1600 F. to 2000 F. in an argon shrouded atmosphere. An example of a useful heat treatment would be 4 hours at 1975 F. in a partial pressure argon atmosphere. The diffusion heat treatment is necessary in order to improve the coating adhesion to the substrate and facilitate mechanical densification processing and surface modification prior to TBC coating.

The diffused bond layer coating formed from the layers and when the first composition for the spallation layer mentioned above is used has an average composition of the two layers which consists of from 10 to 24 wt cobalt from 5.5 to 18 wt chromium up to 6 wt tantalum up to 5.0 wt tungsten up to 1.7 wt molybdenum from 9 to 13.5 wt aluminum 0.1 to 0.6 wt hafnium 0.3 to 0.8 wt yttrium 0.1 to 0.7 wt silicon up to 0.2 wt zirconium and the balance nickel. When the second composition for the spallation layer mentioned above is used the diffused bond layer coating has a composition consisting of from 11 to 24 wt cobalt from 11 to 18 wt chromium up to 6 wt tantalum up to 5.0 wt tungsten up to 1.7 wt molybdenum from 7.5 to 13.5 wt aluminum 0.1 to 0.5 wt hafnium 0.2 to 0.8 wt yttrium 0.1 to 0.7 wt silicon up to 0.2 wt zirconium and the balance nickel.

Following the diffusion heat treatment the thermal barrier coating is applied over the multi layer bond coat. To prepare the metallic coating for thermal barrier coating application the surface of the metallic coating is mechanically densified. Further the surface modification may be necessary in order to smooth and clean the surface in preparation for TBC deposition.

The thermal barrier coating may have a duplex multi layer thermal barrier coating architecture. Thermal barrier coatings which may be applied include single or multiple layers of yittria stabilized and or cubic lanthanide oxide doped zirconia or layers of both deposited via electron beam physical vapor deposition or air plasma spray methods. The lanthanide oxides have the formula LnO where Ln La Ce Pr Nd Pm Sm Eu Gd Tb Dy Ho Er Tm Yb and Lu. Alternatively YO ScO InO CaO MgO could be used to dope the cubic zirconia along with mixtures thereof and mixtures with any of the lanthanide oxides.

In use should the thermal barrier coating suffer spallation the oxidation resistant coating is formed by the layers and .

A coating in accordance with the present disclosure was formed as shown in . The coating was formed by preparing a substrate surface via grit blasting and ultrasonic cleaning followed by alcohol cleaning. The substrate was placed into a cathodic arc chamber along with an ingot of an oxidation resistant coating composition as described hereinabove where the oxidation resistant coating composition was deposited. The coating process was then interrupted wherein an oxidation resistant ingot was replaced with a spallation resistant composition as described hereinabove. The coated substrates were then removed from the coating chamber and diffusion heat treated as described hereinabove.

While the bond layer coating has been described as a two layer metallic coating as shown in it could also be a tri layer metallic coating having a topmost layer with a composition which forms a spallation resistant thermally grown oxide TGO a layer which provides the oxidation resistance and an interfacial layer which is located between the layer and the substrate . The layer acts to prevent reduce the formation of secondary reaction zones SRZ between the metallic coatings and the substrate. The layer may have a composition such as that set forth for layer hereinabove. Layer may have a composition such as that set forth for layer hereinabove. The layer may have a composition similar to the spallation layer but having a low aluminum content. This interfacial layer may have a composition consisting of from 11 to 14 wt cobalt from 11 to 14 wt chromium from 7.5 to 9.5 wt aluminum from 0.1 to 0.5 wt hafnium from 0.2 to 0.6 wt yttrium from 0.1 to 0.3 wt silicon from 0.1 to 0.2 wt zirconium and the balance nickel. Alternatively another suitable composition for the diffusion barrier layer is from 4.5 to 5.5 wt cobalt from 9.5 to 10.5 wt chromium from 4.0 to 5.5 wt aluminum up to 2.0 wt titanium about 12 wt tantalum and the balance nickel.

Preliminary burner rig oxidation testing of the dual layer cat arc coating has shown very promising spallation and oxidation resistance compared to single layer single compositions coatings. Thermal cycles at maximum temperatures ranging from about 2050 F. to about 2150 F. were conducted in a burner rig test facility to evaluate the spallation and oxidation resistance of these bi layer metallic coating systems. The TBC spallation resistance improvement using the coating system described herein ranged from 200 to 800 improvement over a conventional bill of material bond coat. The oxidation resistance improvement using the coating system described herein ranged from about 15 to 44 improvement over the conventional bill of material oxidation resistant bond coat.

The increased oxidation and spallation resistance provided by the coatings disclosed herein can provide improved part life longer time on wing and or improved thermal efficiency for the engine reducing TSFC .

The various layers of the coating systems disclosed herein may be fabricated by a process using a single insertion processing method by which all layers may be formed in succession without breaking vacuum. Single insertion processing is useful because it reduces the processing costs associated with the production of a multi layer metallic coating via conventional methods. Alternatively the various layers of the coating systems disclosed herein may be fabricated by a multiple insertion process such as a dual insertion method. Still further fabrication processes include LPPS EB PVD sputtering and cathodic arc deposition.

There has been disclosed herein a multi layer metallic coating for thermal barrier coating systems. While the coating has been described in the context of specific embodiments thereof other unforeseen alternatives modifications and variations may be apparent to those skilled in the art having read the foregoing disclosure. Accordingly it is intended to embrace those alternatives modifications and variations as fall within the broad scope of the appended claims.

