---

title: Methods and systems for recommending a context based on content interaction
abstract: The present disclosure relates to methods and systems for recommending a context to a user of a social network service, based on detecting an interaction with some item of web content. With some embodiments, after detecting an interaction with a web document, a topic to which the web document is related is determined. A context, such as an online or offline forum, known to be associated with the topic is then identified. Finally, the identified context is presented to the user as a recommendation for a content source that is likely to be of interest to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09172762&OS=09172762&RS=09172762
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09172762
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110120
---
The present disclosure generally relates to processing and presenting web content within an online social networking environment. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods and systems for recommending to a user a particular context of potential interest based on detecting an interaction with some item of web content.

A social network service is a computer or web based application that enables users to establish links or connections with persons for the purpose of sharing information with one another. In general a social network service enables people to memorialize or acknowledge the relationships that exist in their offline i.e. real world lives by establishing a computer based representation of these same relationships in the online world. With a social networking site or service a user may have many options for sharing information with others. For example a user may communicate a private message to a single user for example by directing an email to the user or by posting the message to a web page only accessible to the recipient. In addition to sharing user generated content a social networking user may share information by sharing a link e.g. a hyperlink or Uniform Resource Identifier URI directing the recipient to an external content source such as a blog site news site or an audio or video clip of potential interest to the recipient. In addition to enabling one to one sharing many social network services make it easy to share information with multiple users. For example some social network services enable a user to post a message to or share a link with all users or some predefined set of users such as a group. With some social networks users can self organize into groups such that like minded individuals or individuals with a common interest can become members of the same group for purposes of sharing information and communicating with one another.

As users of social network services become more accustomed to interacting with and via the services and as users become accustomed to sharing more personal information using the services the services have access to greater amounts of more personal user information. Consequently opportunities exist to improve and enrich the overall experience by presenting to users the right mix of information at the right time.

Methods and systems for recommending to a user a particular context of potential interest based on detecting an interaction by the user with some item of web content are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

In addition to enabling users to self organize into personal networks based on common interests and to facilitating communication and the exchange of information between users some social network services attempt to recommend to users individual items of web content e.g. news stories based on some explicit or implicit expression of interest by the users. For instance a social network user may indicate that she is interested in certain topics for example by checking a box corresponding with topics of interest or otherwise indicating or selecting topics of interest. Accordingly the social network service may recommend that the user view certain content that is deemed to have subject matter consistent with a particular topic. In some instances rather than recommending content based on an explicit expression of interest a social network service may recommend content based on some implicit expression of interest. For example a social network service may detect and analyze content items that a particular user is accessing e.g. viewing sharing and or submitting and based on the analysis recommend other content deemed to be similar to the content being accessed by the user. With some embodiments a social network service may detect and analyze interactions with items of content via the social network service as well as interactions that occur via externally hosted third party services or websites.

Consistent with some embodiments of the present invention a social network service will recommend to a user a particular context as opposed to content of potential interest to the user based on detecting an interaction by the user with some item of web content such as a web document. As used herein the term context is meant to encompass both online and offline forums assemblies events seminars webinars groups and so forth. By recommending contexts of potential interest to the user the user is informed of a content source that may be of interest to the user. As such if the context involves an online content source the user may choose to subscribe to or follow the content source thereby allowing the user to be periodically and automatically notified about new web content that is related to a particular topic of interest. Similarly if the context involves an offline content source such as an event e.g. conference seminar class etc. the user may register to attend the one time or repeating event. Accordingly not only does recommending a context instead of an item of content provide the advantage of being a potential repetitive content source the recommended context may lead to the user meeting and interacting with other persons with similar interest.

Consistent with some embodiments when a user interacts with a particular item of web content the social network service detects the interaction and determines a topic to which the web content relates. This interaction with the content related to the particular topic is then used as an implicit expression of interest to identify and recommend contexts in which other content related to the same topic is being presented. For instance after determining that the content with which the user interacted is related to a particular topic the social network service may recommend that the user join a group that is known to have users that frequently post content related to the topic or post comments discussing the particular topic. Other aspects of the inventive concepts are described below in connection with the description of the various figures.

In addition to establishing connections with other users a social network user may indicate that he is an employee of a particular company is a former employee of a company or simply has an interest in a particular company e.g. by subscribing to follow the company . This relationship is indicated in by the group of users with label Company and reference number . This information may be explicitly provided for example by the social network service prompting for and receiving employment history information for a user such that the information forms part of the user s social network profile. Similarly a user may affirmatively request to become part of an administered group for his company where the group is hosted by the social network service and serves as an online forum for the exchange of information between all participating employees of the company. A company group is an example of a context that may be recommended to a particular user consistent with some embodiments of the invention. For example an individual user may receive a recommendation to join a particular company group as a result of the group members frequently posting information about a particular topic to an online forum only accessible to members of the group or alternatively as a result of members of the group frequently discussing a particular topic in the comments of a commenting system for a particular forum.

Another type of relationship a user may have with another user involves common membership in a group. This is illustrated in by the users labeled Group with reference number . For instance a group may be or involve an online forum where users with similar interests can exchange information and engage in discussions about topics of interest that are generally related to the group. Groups may be self administered such that any user of the social network service can establish a group and become the group s administrator. Alternatively a group may be administered by an operator or administrator of the social network service. A group may be a public group and open to all users of the social network service or a private group requiring an invitation or a confirmation of some information prior to being granted membership in the group. For example registration with a group for the alumni of a particular school may require that each user confirm his matriculation with and or graduation from the particular school prior to being granted access to the alumni group. The social network service may facilitate the exchange of information between group members by allowing group members to post and share content such as copies of web documents links to web documents audio and video information etc. In addition a group may have a commenting system that enables members of the group to post comments in connection with individual items of web content. The commenting system may enable threaded discussions such that users can initiate new discussions e.g. by posting a comment in association with an item of web content or reply to the comments posted by others. An online group whether hosted by the social network service or hosted by some external server is yet another example of a context that may be recommended to a particular user.

A final type of relationship illustrated in may involve being related to others who have subscribed to the same topic of interest. For example with some embodiments a social network service may allow users to subscribe to content associated with particular topics. For example these topics may be associated with what are referred to as professional interest centers . Consistent with some embodiments a professional interest center is similar to a group but is maintained or administered by a select user or group of users who are deemed to be experts on a particular topic. These experts are then responsible for curating e.g. selecting and or authoring the content that is published in connection with their particular professional interest center. A user may subscribe to a particular professional interest center to receive notifications of when new content is published and shared. These professional interest centers are yet another example of a context that may facilitate the exchange of information that may be of interest to a user and thus may be recommended to an individual user as a result of the user interacting with some item of web content.

In addition to the specific relationship types illustrated in the relevance to a user of a particular context may be determined based on a variety of other data as well to include profile data data derived from analyzing and tracking a user s interactions with the social network service or a third party service and other data. For instance with some embodiments certain keywords used in a user s profile to describe some aspect of his experience or interests may be utilized in determining the likelihood that a particular context will be of interest to the user. Similarly if a user performs a keyword search this keyword may be used to identify a particular context of potential interest to the user. In addition such profile information as the industry a user belongs to or the location where the user lives may be utilized to assess the likelihood that a certain context will be of interest to the user. If a user has attended a certain event as evidenced by information obtained via the social network service or via a third party data source such information may be useful in determining the relevance to the user of certain other events and so on. A user s reading history e.g. which books a user has read or which articles or document clusters the user tends to read from may be used to assess the relevance of context for recommendation to the user.

In some embodiments a social network service environment may extend beyond the immediate reach of the servers on which the social network service is operated to one or more external servers and or services via one or more implemented application programming interfaces APIs . Accordingly at least with some embodiments the interactions that a user has with web content external to the social network service may be detectable by the social network service. With some embodiments the particular activities that are monitored and detected are those activities that occur via interactions with the social network service. However in some embodiments in addition to interactions that occur via the social network other interactions that occur outside of the social network system are also analyzed. For instance the social network service may have access to data that is generated by one or more third party services such that the data may be accessed periodically or in real time via an application programming interface API . In some instances a formal agreement will be in place between the social network service and the third party such that the third party will have previously agreed to share data with the social network service. In other instances the social network service may have one or more automated processes for scraping data from a third party service. In any case some embodiments utilize both data derived from internally detecting certain interactions as well as data derived from external data sources where such data is used to assess the likelihood that a user will be interested in a certain cluster of articles associated with certain topics.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention a user utilizes a computing device to access the social network service over a data network such as the Internet. As such the social network service includes a content server module e.g. a web server for receiving and processing requests for content. The content server module operates in conjunction with a web document processing module and a content personalization module to present a user with context recommendations based on the detection of an interaction with a web document. More specifically the content personalization module facilitates the presentation to a user of recommendations regarding content sources such as online or offline forums events etc. that the user is likely to find of interest based on an analysis of how the user and persons with whom the user is related have interacted with various web documents.

The web document processing module includes a document retrieval module a topic identifier module a clustering module and a ranking score generating module . With some embodiments the document retrieval module may automatically request and receive web documents from one or more external services e.g. content partners . Additionally the document retrieval module may fetch or retrieve documents in real time as those documents are submitted to the social network service by users. For instance when a user shares or posts a URI of a particular web document via the social network service the document retrieval module may request the web document from a content source by its URI. Regardless of how received the web document processing module includes a topic identifier module and a clustering module that process documents when received. Consistent with some embodiments the topic identifier module processes received web documents to identify topics with which the web document might be related and to identify contexts that are associated with certain topics. Any number of known algorithms for identifying topics in textual content may be utilized. For example the topic identifier module may analyze the text of the web document and form topic vectors based on the words found within the text. With some embodiments the result of the analysis is a set of topics and a confidence number assigned to each web document indicating a measure of the confidence that the particular web document relates to a particular topic. By identifying the topics to which a document relates the various online groups known to discuss certain topics can be identified. A similar analysis may be undertaken for other types of web content such as the user postings and user comments that are facilitated by the social network service. In this way the postings and comments can be analyzed to determine the topics to which they relate and thus allowing the various hosted forums to be assigned topics to which they relate.

With some embodiments the clustering module processes web documents to generate clusters of web documents where topics identified by the topic identifier module form the basis of each cluster. For instance the clusters of web documents may be automatically generated after topics are automatically selected to be the basis of the individual clusters. For instance a topic may be a particular news event such as the inauguration of the U.S. President. The document clustering module will then analyze the text of each web document to assess whether the web document is about the particular topic associated with the various clusters. In some instances the various topics which form the basis of each cluster may be automatically suggested and then manually selected. However in some embodiments the entire process is automated.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention a document interaction detection module detects interactions with web documents. For instance each time a user of the social network takes any one of the actions specified and described in connection with the interaction is detected and the appropriate database tables are updated to reflect the interaction. Moreover after an interaction with a particular web document has been identified the topics to which the web document relates are identified. Using these topics the content personalization module identifies one or more contexts that are known to be associated with one or more of the same topics to which the web document relates. For example if a user posts a web document relating to a particular sports team e.g. topic New York Yankees the content personalization module may identify one or more online groups hosted by the social network service such that the one or more groups are known to be associated with online discussions related to the topic the New York Yankees. In some instances the contexts that may be recommended to a user may be hosted by the social network service but in other instances a context may be externally hosted e.g. by another server or even an off line e.g. real world event.

In some embodiments the associations that are identified as result of the textual analysis of the web content are memorialized in various database tables. As such each item of web content may have a content identifier and each topic identified may have its own topic identifier. Similarly each unique context from which the web content was received or is associated may have a unique identifier such as a context identifier forum identifier or event identifier. The various identifiers are then stored in database tables in a manner to indicate their relative associations.

After detecting the web document interaction at method operation the social network service determines if the web document has been previously analyzed to identify the topics to which the web document relates. For example with some embodiments after analyzing a particular web document the URI of the web document may be cached or stored in a database along with a time stamp indicating the day and or time when the web document was last analyzed. Accordingly if the web document has been recently analyzed as indicated by the time stamp the topics to which the web document relates will be stored in an appropriate database table. In such a scenario at method operation the social network service will identify a context that is both associated with a topic to which the web document relates and is likely to be of interest to the user. Because the various contexts have been previously associated with various topics for example as described in identifying a context known to be associated with a particular topic is achieved by performing a database lookup operation. When more than one context is associated with a topic to which the web document relates then the particular context that is recommended to the user may be selected based in part on an analysis of the prior activities of the user and or the prior activities of the persons to whom the user has a relationship with as defined by the social network service. In such an instance the prior activities are used as a proxy to assess the likelihood that a user would be interested in content to which those activities were directed. For instance if a user s direct connections are known to frequently interact in a particular group hosted by the social network service then that group may be recommended as a context having or involving a content source of potential interest to the user. Finally at method operation the social network service will display a recommendation to the user recommending a context as a potential content source of interest to the user.

If the web document with which the user interacts e.g. at method operation has not previously been received and analyzed at the social network service then at method operation the web document is retrieved via the web document s associated URI. After receiving the web document the social network service analyzes the web document at method operation to identify one or more topics to which the web document relates. Once the topics are known at method operation a context is selected and at method operation the context is recommended to the user as a potential content source of interest.

Upon selecting the SUBMIT button or link the user s submission is posted to the social network service and the user is presented with a second user interface such as that illustrated in . For example after submitting a link or URI for a particular web document relating to topic A the user is presented with a pop up window that recommends to the user the group XYZ Group which is known to have users posting comments about topic A. In some embodiments a single recommendation will be presented while in other embodiments multiple context recommendations may be presented. Similarly with some embodiments some additional detail explaining the reasoning for why the recommendation is being made may be presented while in other embodiments no such explanation may be provided.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

