---

title: Diphenyl substituted alkanes as flap inhibitors
abstract: Compounds of formula I are useful as anti-atherosclerotic, anti-asthmatic, anti-allergic, anti-inflammatory and cytoprotective agents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08729104&OS=08729104&RS=08729104
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 08729104
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110207
---
The instant invention involves compounds that inhibit 5 lipoxygenase activating protein FLAP compositions containing such compounds and methods of treatment using such compounds for the treatment and prevention of atherosclerosis and related diseases and conditions.

Inhibition of leukotriene biosynthesis has been an active area of pharmaceutical research for many years. Leukotrienes are potent contractile and inflammatory mediators derived through the oxygenation of arachidonic acid by 5 lipoxygenase.

One class of leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors are those known to act through inhibition of 5 lipoxygenase 5 LO . In general 5 LO inhibitors have been sought for the treatment of allergic rhinitis asthma and inflammatory conditions including arthritis. One example of a 5 LO inhibitor is the marketed drug zileuton which is indicated for the treatment of asthma. More recently it has been reported that 5 LO may be an important contributor to the atherogenic process see Mehrabian M. et al. Circulation Research 2002 Jul. 26 91 2 120 126.

A new class of leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors now known as FLAP inhibitors distinct from 5 LO inhibitors is described in Miller D. K. et al. Identification and isolation of a membrane protein necessary for leukotriene production Nature vol. 343 No. 6255 pp. 278 281 18 Jan. 1990 . See also Dixon R. A. et al Requirement of a 5 lipoxygenase activating protein for leukotriene synthesis Nature vol 343 no. 6255 pp. 282 4 18 Jan. 1990 . 5 LO inhibitor compounds were used to identify and isolate the inner nuclear membrane 18 000 dalton protein 5 lipoxygenase activating protein FLAP . These compounds inhibit the formation of cellular leukotrienes but have no direct effect on soluble 5 LO activity. In cells arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by the action of cytosolic phospholipase 2. This arachidonic acid is transferred to nuclear membrane bound 5 lipoxygenase by FLAP. The presence of FLAP in cells is essential for the synthesis of leukotrienes. Additionally based on studies described in Helgadottir A. et al. Nature Genetics vol 36 no. 3 March 2004 pp. 233 239 it is believed that the gene encoding 5 lipoxygenase activating protein confers risk for myocardial infarction and stroke in humans.

Despite significant therapeutic advances in the treatment and prevention of atherosclerosis and ensuing atherosclerotic disease events such as the improvements that have been achieved with HMG CoA reductase inhibitors further treatment options are clearly needed. The instant invention addresses that need by providing compounds compositions and methods for the treatment or prevention of atherosclerosis as well as related conditions.

The instant invention relates to compounds of formula I which are FLAP inhibitors methods for their preparation and methods and pharmaceutical formulations for using these compounds in mammals especially humans. This invention provides compounds of structural formula I 

The compounds of Formula I are also useful as anti asthmatic anti allergic anti inflammatory and cytoprotective agents. They are also useful in treating angina cerebral spasm glomerular nephritis hepatitis endotoxemia uveitis and allograft rejection. The instant invention provides methods of treatment comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient in need of the above described treatments.

A further object is to provide the use of FLAP inhibitors of formula I in combination with other therapeutically effective agents including other anti atherosclerotic drugs. These and other objects will be evident from the description contained herein.

Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 of fluoro b Ccycloalkyl and

Ris selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 fluoro Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 fluoro and CH R 

Ris selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 fluoro Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 fluoro COCalkyl and COCcycloalkyl 

Ris selected from the group consisting of H Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 fluoro and CHcycloalkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 fluoro 

Ris selected from the group consisting of pyrrolidinyl optionally substituted on nitrogen with methyl piperidinyl optionally substituted on nitrogen with methyl and morpholinyl optionally substituted on nitrogen with methyl.

In another embodiment of this invention referred to herein as Embodiment A are compounds of formula I wherein 

Ris selected from the group consisting of a Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 fluoro b Ccycloalkyl and

Within each of the embodiments and sub embodiments defined by formulas I Ib Ic and Embodiment A is a first class of compounds wherein Ris Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 fluoro. In a sub class of each of the first classes of compounds are those wherein Ris selected from methyl ethyl propyl i propyl and Calkyl and in a further sub class of each of the first classes Ris t butyl.

Within each of the embodiments and sub embodiments defined by formulas I Ib Ic and Embodiment A is a second class of compounds wherein Ris selected from Ccycloalkyl and

Within each of the embodiments and sub embodiments defined by formulas I Ib Ic and Embodiment A as well as within each of the first classes and sub classes thereof and each of the second classes and sub classes thereof defined above is a third class of compounds wherein Ris selected from H OH and methyl and preferably Ris selected from H and methyl.

Within each of the embodiments and sub embodiments defined by formulas I Ib Ic and Embodiment A as well as within each of the first classes and sub classes thereof and each of the second classes and sub classes thereof and each of the third classes all defined above is a fourth class of compounds wherein Ris selected from H methyl and ethyl and more particularly Ris H and Ris H.

The invention is described herein in detail using the terms defined below unless otherwise specified. Alkyl means carbon chains which may be linear or branched or combinations thereof containing the indicated number of carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl groups include methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl i propyl butyl sec and tert butyl s butyl t butyl pentyl hexyl and the like. Cycloalkyl is intended to be a cyclized alkyl ring having the indicated number of carbon atoms Examples of cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.

Reference to the compounds of this invention as those of formula I formula Ia formula Ib formula Ic or any other generic structural formulas used herein is intended herein to encompass compounds falling within the scope of the structural formula including pyridyl N oxide analogs and pharmaceutically acceptable salts esters and solvate forms thereof including pharmaceutically acceptable salts esters and solvate forms of the pyridyl N oxide analogs where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise. The term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases or acids including inorganic or organic bases and inorganic or organic acids. Salts derived from inorganic bases include aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic salts manganous potassium sodium zinc and the like. Particularly preferred are the ammonium calcium lithium magnesium potassium and sodium salts. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethyl morpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like. When the compound of the present invention is basic salts may be prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids including inorganic and organic acids. Such acids include acetic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric ethanesulfonic formic fumaric gluconic glutamic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic maleic malic mandelic methanesulfonic malonic mucic nitric pamoic pantothenic phosphoric propionic succinic sulfuric tartaric p toluenesulfonic acid trifluoroacetic acid and the like and particularly citric fumaric hydrobromic hydrochloric maleic phosphoric sulfuric and tartaric acids.

Pharmaceutically acceptable esters of available hydroxy groups can optionally be formed as well. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable esters include but are not limited to Calkyl and Calkyl substituted with phenyl dimethylamino and acetylamino.

The compounds of formula I may contain one or more asymmetric centers and can thus occur as racemates racemic mixtures single enantiomers diastereoisomeric mixtures and individual diastereoisomers. The present invention includes all such isomers as well as salts esters and solvates of such racemates mixtures enantiomers and diastereoisomers. Furthermore some of the crystalline forms of compounds of the present invention may exist as polymorphs and as such are intended to be included in the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water or common organic solvents. Such solvates and hydrates are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention.

Compounds of structural formula I may be separated into their individual diastereoisomers by e.g. fractional crystallization from suitable solvents e.g. DCM hexanes or EtOAc hexanes or via chiral chromatography using an optically active stationary phase. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing a stereogenic center of known configuration. Alternatively any stereoisomer of a compound of the general formula I may be obtained by stereospecific synthesis using optically pure starting materials or reagents of known absolute configuration.

The ability of the compounds of this invention to inhibit biosynthesis of the leukotrienes makes them useful for preventing or reversing the symptoms induced by the leukotrienes in a human subject. Accordingly this invention provides a method for preventing the synthesis the action or the release of leukotrienes in a mammal which comprises administering to said mammal a FLAP inhibitory effective amount of a compound of this invention. Such FLAP inhibitory activity can be measured using the FLAP Assay described herein. Since leukotrienes are potent inflammatory mediators also provided is method of treating an inflammatory condition in a mammal which comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention to a mammal in need of such treatment.

The inhibition of the mammalian biosynthesis of leukotrienes also indicates that the compounds and pharmaceutical compositions thereof are useful to treat prevent or ameliorate atherosclerosis in mammals and especially in humans. Therefore the compounds of formula I can be used for the treatment of atherosclerosis comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient in need of such treatment. A further aspect of this invention involves a method for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a compound of formula I to a patient in need of such treatment for example a patient who is at risk of developing atherosclerosis.

Atherosclerosis is characterized by the deposition of atheromatous plaques containing cholesterol and lipids on the innermost layer of the walls of large and medium sized arteries. Atherosclerosis encompasses vascular diseases and conditions that are recognized and understood by physicians practicing in the relevant fields of medicine. Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease including restenosis following revascularization procedures coronary heart disease also known as coronary artery disease or ischemic heart disease cerebrovascular disease including multi infarct dementia and peripheral vessel disease including erectile dysfunction are all clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis and are therefore encompassed by the terms atherosclerosis and atherosclerotic disease. 

A FLAP inhibitor may be administered to prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence or recurrence where the potential exists of a coronary heart disease CHD event a cerebrovascular event and or intermittent claudication. Coronary heart disease events are intended to include CHD death myocardial infarction i.e. a heart attack and coronary revascularization procedures. Cerebrovascular events are intended to include ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke also known as cerebrovascular accidents and transient ischemic attacks. Intermittent claudication is a clinical manifestation of peripheral vessel disease. The term atherosclerotic disease event as used herein is intended to encompass coronary heart disease events cerebrovascular events and intermittent claudication. It is intended that persons who have previously experienced one or more non fatal atherosclerotic disease events are those for whom the potential for recurrence of such an event exists.

Accordingly the instant invention also provides a method for preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event comprising the administration of a prophylactically effective amount of a FLAP inhibitor to a patient at risk for such an event. The patient may already have atherosclerotic disease at the time of administration or may be at risk for developing it.

The method of this invention particularly serves to prevent or slow new atherosclerotic lesion or plaque formation and to prevent or slow progression of existing lesions or plaques as well as to cause regression of existing lesions or plaques. Accordingly one aspect of this invention encompassed within the scope of treatment of atherosclerosis involves a method for halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerosis including halting or slowing atherosclerotic plaque progression comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a FLAP inhibitor to a patient in need of such treatment. This method also includes halting or slowing progression of atherosclerotic plaques existing at the time the instant treatment is begun i.e. existing atherosclerotic plaques as well as halting or slowing formation of new atherosclerotic plaques in patients with atherosclerosis.

Another aspect of this invention encompassed within the scope of treatment of atherosclerosis involves a method for regression of atherosclerosis including regression of atherosclerotic plaques existing at the time the instant treatment is begun comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a FLAP inhibitor to a patient in need of such treatment. Another aspect of this invention involves a method for preventing or reducing the risk of atherosclerotic plaque rupture comprising administering a prophylactically effective amount of a FLAP inhibitor to a patient in need of such treatment.

The ability of the compounds of Formula I to inhibit biosynthesis of the leukotrienes makes them useful for preventing or reversing the symptoms induced by the leukotrienes in a human subject. This inhibition of the mammalian biosynthesis of leukotrienes indicates that the compounds and pharmaceutical compositions thereof are useful to prevent or reduce the risk for treat or ameliorate in mammals and especially in humans 1 pulmonary disorders including diseases such as asthma chronic bronchitis and related obstructive airway diseases 2 allergies and allergic reactions such as allergic rhinitis contact dermatitis allergic conjunctivitis and the like 3 inflammation such as arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease 4 pain 5 skin disorders such as atopic eczema and the like 6 cardiovascular disorders such as angina formation of atherosclerotic plaques myocardial ischemia hypertension platelet aggregation and the like 7 renal insufficiency arising from ischaemia induced by immunological or chemical cyclosporin etiology and 8 migraine or cluster headache 9 ocular conditions such as uveitis 10 hepatitis resulting from chemical immunological or infectious stimuli 11 trauma or shock states such as burn injuries endotoxemia and the like 12 allograft rejection 13 prevention of side effects associated with therapeutic administration of cytokines such as Interleukin II and tumor necrosis factor 14 chronic lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis bronchitis and other small and large airway diseases 15 cholecystitis 16 multiple sclerosis 17 proliferation of myoblastic leukemia cells and 18 acne.

Thus the compounds of the present invention may also be used to treat or prevent mammalian especially human disease states such as erosive gastritis erosive esophagitis diarrhea cerebral spasm premature labor spontaneous abortion dysmenorrhea ischemia noxious agent induced damage or necrosis of hepatic pancreatic renal or myocardial tissue liver parenchymal damage caused by hepatoxic agents such as CCland D galactosamine ischemic renal failure disease induced hepatic damage bile salt induced pancreatic or gastric damage trauma or stress induced cell damage and glycerol induced renal failure. The compounds also act as inhibitors of tumor metastasis and exhibit cytoprotective action.

The FLAP inhibitors of this invention can also be administered for prevention amelioration and treatment of glomerulonephritis see Guasch A. Zayas C. F. Badr K F. 1999 MK 591 acutely restores glomerular size selectivity and reduces proteinuria in human glomerulonephritis Kidney Int. 56 261 267 and also for and prevention amelioration and treatment of kidney damage resulting from diabetes complications see Valdivielso J M Montero A. Badr K F. Munger K A. 2003 Inhibition of FLAP decreases proteinuria in diabetic rats J. Nephrol. 16 1 85 940. 

In addition the compounds of this invention can also be used for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD . As described in S. Kilfeather Chest 2002 vol 121 197 airway neutrophilia in COPD patients is believed to be a contributing source of inflammation and is associated with airway remodeling. The presence of neutrophils is mediated in part by LTB and treatment with the instant compounds could be used to reduce neutrophilic inflammation in patients with COED.

The cytoprotective activity of a compound may be observed in both animals and man by noting the increased resistance of the gastrointestinal mucosa to the noxious effects of strong irritants for example the ulcerogenic effects of aspirin or indomethacin. In addition to lessening the effect of non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs on the gastrointestinal tract animal studies show that cytoprotective compounds will prevent gastric lesions induced by oral administration of strong acids strong bases ethanol hypertonic saline solutions and the like. Two assays can be used to measure cytoprotective ability. These assays are A an ethanol induced lesion assay and B an indomethacin induced ulcer assay and are described in EP 140 684.

In particular the compounds of the invention would be useful to reduce the gastric erosion caused by co administration of a cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitor and low dose aspirin. Cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitors are widely used as effective anti inflammatory drugs with less potential for gastrointestinal complications as compared to traditional non selective non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs. However the combined use of a cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitor with low dose aspirin for cardio protection may compromise the gastrointestinal safety of this class of compounds. By virtue of its activity as a 5 lipoxygenase inhibitor the compounds of the invention would be expected to be gastric protective in this regard. See Fiorucci et at FASEB J. 17 1171 1173 2003. Cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitors for use with the invention include but are not limited to etoricoxib ARCOXIA celecoxib CELEBREX and valdecoxib BEXTRA . A compound of this invention in combination with a cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitor could be administered in unit dosage form or separately to a patient on low dose aspirin therapy. Alternatively the cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitor could be administered in unit dosage form with low dose aspirin in which case a compound of this invention would be administered separately. All three active ingredients in unit dosage form is also encompassed. Conventional dosage amounts of the cyclooxygenase 2 selective inhibitor and aspirin for cardio protection may be utilized. Aspirin could be administered at 81 mg once daily.

In general FLAP inhibitors can be identified as those compounds which have an ICin the FLAP Binding Assay that is less than or equal to 1 M and preferably 500 nM or less.

The term patient includes mammals especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prevention or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk of onset of atherosclerosis.

The term therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. The term prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment to slow progression of existing atherosclerosis and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention of an atherosclerotic disease event or formation of new lesions.

An effective amount of a FLAP inhibitor in the method of this invention is in the range of about 0.01 mg kg to about 30 mg kg of body weight per day preferably 0.1 mg to about 15 mg per kg and most preferably 0.5 to 7.5 mg per kg in single or divided doses. A single daily dose is preferred but not necessary. For an average body weight of 70 kg the dosage level is therefore from about 1 mg to about 2000 mg of drug per day e.g. 10 mg 25 mg 50 mg 75 mg 100 mg 125 mg 150 mg 175 mg 200 mg 250 mg or 500 mg per day preferably given as a single daily dose or in divided doses two to four times a day or in sustained release form. It will be understood however that the specific dose level for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors including the age body weight general health sex diet time of administration route of administration rate of excretion drug combination and the severity of the patient s condition. A consideration of these factors is well within the purview of the ordinarily skilled clinician for the purpose of determining the therapeutically effective or prophylactically effective dosage amount needed to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition. It is expected that the FLAP inhibitor will administered chronically on a daily basis for a length of time appropriate to treat or prevent the medical condition relevant to the patient including a course of therapy lasting months years or the life of the patient.

One or more additional active agents may be administered with a compound of Formula I. The term additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a pharmaceutically active agent or agents different from the compound of formula I. In a broad embodiment any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents may be used in combination with the compound of formula I in a single dosage formulation or may be administered to the patient in a separate dosage formulation which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents. The additional active agent or agents can be lipid modifying compounds or agents having other pharmaceutical activities or agents that have both lipid modifying effects and other pharmaceutical activities. Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to HMG CoA reductase inhibitors which include statins in their lactonized or dihydroxy open acid forms and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and esters thereof including but not limited to lovastatin see U.S. Pat. No. 4 342 767 simvastatin see U.S. Pat. No. 4 444 784 pravastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 772 atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt thereof see U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 pitavastatin also referred to as NK 104 see PCT international publication number WO 97 23200 and rosuvastatin CRESTOR see U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 5 lipoxygenase inhibitors cholesterol ester transfer protein CETP inhibitors for example JTT 705 and torcetrapib also known as CP529 414 HMO CoA synthase inhibitors squalene epoxidase inhibitors squalene synthetase inhibitors also known as squalene synthase inhibitors acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyltransferase ACAT inhibitors including selective inhibitors of ACAT 1 or ACAT 2 as well as dual inhibitors of ACAT 1 and 2 microsomal triglyceride transfer protein MTP inhibitors niacin niacin receptor agonists such as acipimox and acifran as well as niacin receptor partial agonists bile acid sequestrants LDL low density lipoprotein receptor inducers platelet aggregation inhibitors for example glycoprotein IIb IIIa fibrinogen receptor antagonists and aspirin human peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR agonists including the compounds commonly referred to as glitazones for example pioglitazone and rosiglitazone and including those compounds included within the structural class known as thiazolidinediones as well as those PPAR agonists outside the thiazolidinedione structural class PPAR agonists such as clofibrate fenofibrate including micronized fenofibrate and gemfibrozil PPAR dual agonists vitamin B also known as pyridoxine and the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof such as the HCl salt vitamin B also known as cyanocobalamin folic acid or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester thereof such as the sodium salt and the methylglucamine salt anti oxidant vitamins such as vitamin C and E and beta carotene beta blockers angiotensin II antagonists such as losartan angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors such as enalapril and captopril calcium channel blockers such as nifedipine and diltiazam endothelian antagonists agents that enhance ABCA1 gene expression PXR and LXR ligands including both inhibitors and agonists bisphosphonate compounds such as alendronate sodium and cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors such as etoricoxib celecoxib and valdecoxib.

Still another type of agent that can be used in combination with the compounds of this invention are cholesterol absorption inhibitors. Cholesterol absorption inhibitors block the movement of cholesterol from the intestinal lumen into enterocytes of the small intestinal wall. This blockade is their primary mode of action in reducing serum cholesterol levels. These compounds are distinct from compounds which reduce serum cholesterol levels primarily by mechanisms of action such as acyl coenzyme A cholesterol acyl transferase ACAT inhibition inhibition of triglyceride synthesis MTP inhibition bile acid sequestration and transcription modulation such as agonists or antagonists of nuclear hormones. Cholesterol absorption inhibitors include but are not limited to those described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 846 966 U.S. Pat. No. 5 631 365 U.S. Pat. No. 5 767 115 U.S. Pat. No. 6 133 001 U.S. Pat. No. 5 886 171 U.S. Pat. No. 5 856 473 U.S. Pat. No. 5 756 470 U.S. Pat. No. 5 739 321 U.S. Pat. No. 5 919 672 U.S. Pat. No. 6 498 156 US2004 0082561 US2004 0067913 US2004 0063929 US2002 0137689 WO 05 047248 WO 05 021497 WO 05 021495 WO 05 000353 WO 04 005247 WO 00 63703 WO 00 60107 WO 00 38725 WO 00 34240 WO 00 20623 WO 97 45406 WO 97 16424 WO 97 16455 and WO 95 08532. An exemplary cholesterol absorption inhibitor is ezetimibe marketed in the U.S. under the tradename ZETIA described in U.S. Pat. No. Re 37721 and the Physician s Desk Reference.

This and other cholesterol absorption inhibitors can be identified according to the assay of hypolipidemic compounds using the hyperlipidemic hamster described in U.S. Pat. Re 37721 beginning in column 20 in which hamsters are fed a controlled cholesterol diet and dosed with test compounds for seven days. Plasma lipid analysis is conducted and data is reported as percent reduction of lipid versus control.

Therapeutically effective amounts of cholesterol absorption inhibitors include dosages of from about 0.01 mg kg to about 30 mg kg of body weight per day preferably about 0.1 mg kg to about 15 mg kg. For an average body weight of 70 kg the dosage level is therefore from about 0.7 mg to about 2100 mg of drug per day e.g. 10 20 40 100 or 200 mg per day preferably given as a single daily dose or in divided doses two to six times a day or in sustained release form. This dosage regimen may be adjusted to provide the optimal therapeutic response when the cholesterol absorption inhibitor is used in combination with a compound of the instant invention.

In the method of treatment of this invention the FLAP inhibitors may be administered via any suitable route of administration such as orally parenterally or rectally in dosage unit formulations containing conventional non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants and vehicles. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. Oral formulations are preferred.

For oral use the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention containing the active ingredient may be in forms such as tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules or syrups or elixirs. Compositions intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents selected from the group consisting of sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide pharmaceutically elegant and palatable preparations. Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. These excipients may be far example inert diluents such as calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents for example corn starch or alginic acid binding agents for example starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents for example magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc.

Oral immediate release and time controlled release dosage forms may be employed as well as enterically coated oral dosage forms. Tablets may be uncoated or they may be coated by known techniques to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be employed. One example of a time controlled release device is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 366 738. They may also be coated by the technique described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 256 108 4 166 452 and 4 265 874 to form osmotic therapeutic tablets for controlled release.

Formulations for oral use may also be presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredients is mixed with water or miscible solvents such as propylene glycol PEGs and ethanol or an oil medium for example peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Aqueous suspensions contain the active material in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients are suspending agents for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxy propylmethylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinyl pyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia dispersing or wetting agents may be a naturally occurring phosphatide for example lecithin or condensation products of an alkylene oxide with fatty acids for example polyoxyethylene stearate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with long chain aliphatic alcohols for example heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and a hexitol such as polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example polyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The aqueous suspensions may also contain one or more preservatives for example ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more colouring agents one or more flavouring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose saccharin or aspartame.

Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil for example arachis oil olive oil sesame oil or coconut oil or in mineral oil such as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions may contain a thickening agent for example beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those set forth above and flavoring agents may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by the addition of an anti oxidant such as ascorbic acid.

Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous suspension by the addition of water provide the active ingredient in admixture with a dispersing or wetting agent suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents are exemplified by those already mentioned above. Additional excipients for example sweetening flavoring and coloring agents may also be present.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may also be in the form of an oil in water emulsions. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil for example olive oil or arachis oil or a mineral oil for example liquid paraffin or mixtures of these. Suitable emulsifying agents may be naturally occurring phosphatides for example soy bean lecithin and esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example sorbitan monooleate and condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The emulsions may also contain sweetening and flavouring agents.

Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents for example glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol or sucrose. Such formulations may also contain a demulcent a preservative and flavoring and coloring agents. The pharmaceutical compositions may be in the form of a sterile injectable aqueous or oleagenous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. Cosolvents such as ethanol propylene glycol or polyethylene glycols may also be used. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid find use in the preparation of injectables.

The instant invention also encompasses a process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also encompassed is the pharmaceutical composition which is made by combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

A therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for treating or preventing any of the medical conditions described herein in dosage amounts described herein. For example a compound of Formula I can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for preventing or reducing the risk of developing atherosclerotic disease halting or slowing the progression of atherosclerotic disease once it has become clinically manifest and preventing or reducing the risk of a first or subsequent occurrence of an atherosclerotic disease event. Additionally the medicament may be useful for the treatment of asthma allergies and allergic conditions inflammation COPD or erosive gastritis. The medicament comprised of a compound of Formula I may also be prepared with one or more additional active agents such as those described herein.

The compounds of structural formula I of the present invention can be prepared according to the procedures of the following Schemes and Examples using appropriate materials and are further exemplified by the specific examples which follow. Moreover by utilizing the procedures described herein one of ordinary skill in the art can readily prepare additional compounds of the present invention claimed herein. The compounds illustrated in the examples are not however to be construed as forming the only genus that is considered as the invention. All temperatures are degrees Celsius unless otherwise noted. Mass spectra MS were measured by electron spray ion mass spectroscopy ES MS .

The instant compounds are generally isolated in a pharmaceutically acceptable form which can either be the free base or an appropriate salt derivative such as those described above. The free amine bases corresponding to the isolated salts can be generated by neutralization with a suitable base such as aqueous sodium hydrogencarbonate sodium carbonate sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide and extraction of the liberated amine free base into an organic solvent followed by evaporation. The amine free base isolated in this manner can be further converted into another pharmaceutically acceptable salt by dissolution in an organic solvent followed by addition of the appropriate acid and subsequent evaporation precipitation or crystallization.

Ar is Aryl Bu is butyl t Bu is tert butyl celite is Celite diatomaceous earth DCM is dichloromethane Dess Martin Periodinane is 1 1 1 tris acetyloxy 1 1 dihydro 1 2 benzodoxol 3 1H one DIPEA is diisopropylethylamine DMF is N N dimethylformamide dppf is 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene equiv. is equivalent s ES MS is electron spray ion mass spectroscopy Et is ethyl EtOAc is ethyl acetate HATU is O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HetAr or HAR is Heteroaryl HPLC is high performance liquid chromatography i is Iso LDA is lithium diisopropylamide LG is leaving group Me is methyl m.p. is melting point MS is mass spectrum and a mass spectrum obtained by ES MS may be denoted herein by ES p is para Ph is phenyl Pr is propyl i Pr is isopropyl p TSA is para toluenesulfonic acid Tf is trifluoromethanesulfonyl TFA is trifluoroacetic acid and THF is tetrahydrofuran.

Reaction scheme A illustrates the preferred method for synthesis of compounds of structural formula 3 and 4. In this method a benzophenone of type 1 is treated with an organometallic reagent of type 2 capable of transferring an alkyl group and the product of the reaction is a compound of structural formula 3. Preferred organometallic reagents for this transformation include organomagnesium Grignard or organolithium compounds. When Grignard reagents are employed as shown in scheme A it is customary to conduct the reaction in a suitable ethereal solvent such as diethyl ether or THF or mixtures thereof at temperatures between 78 C. and the boiling temperature of the solvent. In the case of an organolithium reagent the reaction can be conducted in a variety of solvents such as diethyl ether or hexanes at temperatures between 78 C. and room temperature. The Grignard and the organolithium reagents are often purchased commercially but can be prepared synthetically according to known methods in organic synthesis. Removal of the tertiary hydroxyl group in 3 will depend upon the identity of the Zand Zsubstituents. If these substituents are unaffected by hydrogenation conditions then the hydroxyl group may be removed by hydrogenolysis using a palladium on carbon catalyst in a solvent such as methanol or ethanol and in the presence of hydrogen gas or a hydrogen donor such as formic acid. Occasionally it may be the case that either one or both of the Zand Zsubstituents are sensitive to hydrogenation conditions and in these instances 3 is reacted with a organosilane such as triethylsilane in the presence of a protic acid like TFA or a Lewis acid like boron trifluoride. It is customary to conduct the reaction in an inert organic solvent like DCM or 1 2 dichloroethane at temperatures between 0 C. and boiling point of the solvent. Depending on the nature of the Zand Zsubstituents compound 4 can then be transformed to other compounds of the present invention.

Reaction scheme B illustrates an alternative method for the synthesis of diarylalcohols of type 3. In this method an alkyl aryl ketone of type 5 is treated with an organometallic reagent of type 6 capable of transferring an aryl group. Preferred organometallic reagents for effecting this transformation include organomagnesium Grignard or organolithium con pounds and are used in a similar manner to that described above. In yet another variation of this method 3 can also be prepared from the reaction of an alkyl aryl ketone of type 7 and a organometallic reagent of type 8.

Reaction scheme C illustrates a general method for the synthesis of compounds of type 13 Z Z OH . In this method an aldehyde of type 9 can be arylated twice in an electrophilic aromatic substitution process called the Friedel Crafts reaction. Typical conditions for affecting such an arylation include initial addition of one aromatic coupling partner of type 10 to the aldehyde 9 to afford an intermediary alcohol of type 11 subsequent generation of an intermediate secondary carbocation of type 12 derived from 11 followed by in situ trapping with a second aromatic coupling partner of type 10 which may or may not be the same as the first aromatic coupling partner. Formation of 12 may occur spontaneously in solution or it may be promoted with a reagent capable of ionizing 11 like a protic acid such as p TSA or concentrated hydrochloric acid or a suitable Lewis acid. In certain cases it may be preferable to conduct the reaction in the presence of a free radical scavenger such as 3 mercaptopropionic acid or the like. The reaction is conducted typically in an inert organic solvent at temperatures between 20 C. and the boiling temperature of the solvent. The product is a compound of type 13 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme D illustrates the preferred method for the preparation of compounds of type 15 Z Z OH . In this method a ketone of type 14 can be arylated twice using the Friedel Crafts arylation methodology described above. The product is a compound of type 15 which can be elaborated to compounds of the present invention as described in the subsequent schemes.

Reaction scheme E illustrates the preferred method for the generation of compounds of type 17 Z OH . In this method each of the aromatic coupling partners are introduced sequentially but in separate chemical manipulations. For example in scheme E the aromatic coupling partners are introduced using a combination of the aforementioned Grignard and Friedel Crafts acylation methodologies. Conditions for affecting the latter transformations are as described above.

Scheme F illustrates that compounds of structural formula 18 can be elaborated to the Rheterocyclic derivatives of structural formula 19 using known methods in organic synthesis. Specific examples of such transformations are shown in the Examples section.

Scheme G illustrates the preferred method for the resolution of a compound of structural formula 20 in which the asterisked carbon is a center of chirality. Generally the latter or intermediates en route to their preparation may be resolved to afford enantiomerically pure compounds such as 21 and 22 by chiral stationary phase liquid chromatography techniques or other suitable methods known in organic synthesis.

The following examples are provided to illustrate the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the invention in any manner.

4 Ethoxycarbonyl phenyl zinc iodide 50.0 mL of a 0.5 M solution in THF 25.0 mmol was added slowly via cannula to a stirred solution of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 484 mg 0.690 mmol in THF 50 mL at 0 C. After 15 min trimethylacetyl chloride 2.80 mL 22.7 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1.5 h. The reaction mixture was poured into 1 N HCl and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 10 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 1a. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.08 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.67 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 4.42 q 2H J 7.2 Hz 1.42 t 3H J 7.2 Hz 1.36 s 9H .

Lithium hydroxide monohydrate 1.50 g 35.7 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 1a 3.20 g 13.7 mmol in dioxane water 20 mL 8.0 mL respectively and the resulting mixture was heated to 50 C. for 1 h. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was poured into 0.5 N HCl and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was suspended in methanol and sodium methoxide 4.0 mL of 25 wt solution in methanol was added. After 30 min the volatiles were evaporated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 1b which was used without further purification in the subsequent step.

Lithium chloride 2.00 g 47.2 mmol was added to an appropriately sized round bottom flask and then fused under vacuum using a gentle flame source. Magnesium turnings 730 mg 30.4 mmol iodine a few crystals 1 benzyloxy 4 bromobenzene 7.90 g 30.0 mmol and THF 30 mL were added and the resulting mixture was heated at 50 C. until the magnesium metal was consumed. After cooling to room temperature the resulting solution was added slowly via syringe pump to a stirred solution of i 1b 3.30 g 14.5 mmol in THF 100 mL at 0 C. After approximately 3 h the reaction mixture was poured into 1 N HCl and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to give the title compound i 1c which was used without further purification in the subsequent step. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.04 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 7.63 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 7.50 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 7.52 7.36 m 5H 6.93 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 5.08 s 2H 1.22 s 9H .

Cesium carbonate 5.70 g 17.5 mmol and iodomethane 2.70 mL 43.4 mmol were added to a solution of i 1c 5.70 g 14.6 mmol in DMF 70 mL . After approximately 2 h the reaction was quenched by the addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The resulting mixture was poured into water and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 10 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 1d. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.94 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 7.58 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 7.47 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 7.47 7.34 m 5H 6.90 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 5.05 s 2H 3.92 s 3H 1.18 s 9H .

A mixture of i 1d 2.60 g 6.70 mmol and palladium hydroxide 800 mg of 20 wt. on activated carbon in ethanol 60 mL was hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure for approximately 72 h. The resulting mixture was filtered through a short column of Celite eluting copiously with DCM. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 5 20 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 1e. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.96 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.49 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.30 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 6.78 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 3.92 s 3H 3.75 s 1H 1.03 s 9H .

Enantiomers i 1f and i 1g were separated using preparative supercritical fluid chromatography. A solution of i 1e 1.8 g in methanol 9 mL was injected 9 1 mL onto a Chiralpak AD available from Chiral Technologies Inc. Exton Pa. semi preparative 250 20 mm HPLC column eluting with 40 methanol COat 50 mL min 100 bar outlet pressure with UV detection at 220 nm . The enantiomers were separated with the faster eluting enantiomer i 1f having a retention time of 3.25 min and the slower eluting enantiomer i 1 having a retention time of 4.90 min. The eluants were concentrated to provide the enantiomers i 1f 9.21 c 0.01 chloroform and i 1g 10.2 c 0.01 chloroform .

Cesium carbonate 2.10 g 6.45 mmol potassium iodide 490 mg 2.95 mmol and 2 picolyl chloride hydrochloride 460 mg 2.80 mmol were added to a stirred solution of i 1g 800 mg 2.68 mmol in DMF 25 mL . After approximately 18 h the reaction mixture was quenched by the addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The resulting mixture was poured into water and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate water brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound i 1i 4.80 c 0.01 chloroform . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.59 d 1H J 4.3 Hz 7.94 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.72 dt 1H J 1.8 7.8 Hz 7.52 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.49 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.34 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 7.23 dd 1H J 5.1 7.4 Hz 6.92 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 5.19 s 2H 3.90 s 3H 3.75 s 1H 1.02 s 9H . In a similar manner Intermediate i 1f was converted to i 1 h 7.70 c 0.01 chloroform .

Isopropyl magnesium chloride 12.0 mL of a 2 M solution in THF 24.0 mmol was added to a solution of methyl 4 iodobenzoate 5.24 g 20.0 mmol in THF 50 mL at 40 C. After 1 h a second portion of isopropyl magnesium chloride 5.00 ml of a 2 M solution in THF 10.0 mmol was added and the resulting mixture allowed to stir at 40 C. for 4 h. 3 Methyl 2 butanone 2.10 mL 19.6 mmol was then added and the resulting mixture allowed to warm to room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was poured into 1 N HCl and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed water brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 20 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 2a. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.02 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.52 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 3.95 s 3H 2.05 p 1H J 6.6 Hz 1.57 s 3H 0.95 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.80 d 3H J 6.9 Hz .

p TSA 600 mg 3.15 mmol phenol 900 mg 9.54 mmol and i 2a 1.41 g 6.35 mmol were added to a preheated round bottom flask at 95 C. and the resulting mixture was then heated to 120 C. for 2.0 h. After cooling to room temperature the crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 10 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 2b. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.93 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.33 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.10 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.74 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 3.91 s 3H 2.70 s 1H J 6.7 Hz 1.61 s 3H 0.87 d 3H J 6.7 Hz 0.83 d 3H J 6.7 Hz .

Enantiomers i 2c and i 2d were separated using preparative normal phase chiral HPLC. A solution of i 2b 360 mg in isopropanol 4.5 mL of a 1 4 mixture was injected 9 0.5 mL onto a Chiralpak AD available from Chiral Technologies Inc. Exton Pa. semi preparative 250 20 mm HPLC column eluting with 30 isopropanol heptanes at 9 ml min with UV detection at 254 nm . The enantiomers were separated with the faster eluting enantiomer i 2c having a retention time of 18.9 min and the slower eluting enantiomer i 2d having a retention time of 21.6 min. The eluants were concentrated to provide the enantiomers i 2c and i 2d.

Intermediate i 2e was prepared from i 2c following the above procedure as described for i 1i. m z ES 390 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.61 d 1H J 4.6 Hz 7.93 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.74 t 1H J 7.7 Hz 7.55 d 1H J 7.8 Hz 7.33 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.23 m 1H 7.16 d 2H J 0.8.7 Hz 6.90 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.20 s 2H 3.90 s 3H 2.71 s 1H J 6.6 Hz 1.62 s 3H 0.87 d 3H J 6.6 Hz 0.83 d 3H J 6.6 Hz .

Intermediate i 3a was prepared from 4 ethoxycarbonylphenyl zinc iodide and cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride following the above procedure as described for intermediate i 1a. m z ES 219 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.17 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 8.08 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 4.44 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 2.71 m 1H 1.45 t 3H J 7.1 Hz 1.31 m 2H 1.13 m 2H .

Sodium borohydride 107 mg 2.82 mmol was added in several portions to a stirred solution of i 3a 1.23 g 5.64 mmol in ethanol 30 mL at room temperature. After 2 h an additional portion of sodium borohydride 75.0 mg 1.98 mmol was added. After 1 h the volatiles were removed in vacuo and the crude residue partitioned between EtOAc and 0.5 N HCl. The organic phase was separated washed with brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 25 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 3b. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.06 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.53 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 4.41 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 4.11 d 1H J 8.2 Hz 1.42 t 3H J 7.1 Hz 1.23 m 1H 0.68 m 1H 0.62 m 1H 0.51 m 1H 0.46 m 1H .

Intermediate i 3c was prepared from i 3b following the above procedure as described for intermediate i 2b. m z ES 297 MH .

Intermediate i 3d was prepared from i 3c following the above procedure as described for intermediate i 1i. m z ES 388 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.62 d 1H J 4.8 Hz 7.99 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.74 dt 1H J 1.8 7.8 Hz 7.56 d 1H J 7.7 Hz 7.34 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.25 dd 1H J 5.4 7.0 Hz 7.19 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.95 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.21 s 2H 4.39 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 3.24 d 1H J 9.4 Hz 1.40 t 3H J 7.1 Hz 1.39 m 1H 0.69 m 2H 0.31 m 2H .

Intermediate i 3e was prepared using isobutyryl chloride in place of cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride following the procedures as described for making i 3d. m z ES 390 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.60 d 1H J 5.2 Hz 7.96 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.72 dt 1H J 1.6 7.6 Hz 7.53 d 1H J 7.7 Hz 7.35 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.24 m 1H 7.20 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.92 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.18 s 2H 4.37 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 3.45 d 1H J 10.7 Hz 2.48 m 1H 1.29 t 3H J 7.1 Hz 0.91 d 3H J 6.7 Hz 0.88 d 3H J 6.4 Hz .

Compounds wherein Ris Calkyl substituted with 1 3 of fluoro for example compounds 1aa and 1bb in Table 1 below can be prepared by standard fluorination procedures on the appropriate intermediate for example fluorination of an intermediate similar to i 3a wherein the cyclopropyl group is replaced by isopropyl . For example fluorination can be accomplished by base catalyzed enolization followed by trapping with an electrophilic fluorinating agent such as chlorodifluoromethane or iodotrifluoromethane.

Intermediate i 4a was prepared from 4 ethoxycarbonylphenyl zinc iodide and cyclobutanecarbonyl chloride following the above procedure as described for intermediate i 1a. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.13 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.96 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 4.43 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 4.04 dt 1H J 6.9 7.4 Hz 2.44 m 2H 2.34 m 2H 2.14 m 1H 1.96 m 1H 1.43 t 3H J 7.0 Hz .

A stirred mixture of magnesium turnings 80.0 mg 3.33 mmol iodine a few crystals and 1 benzyloxy 4 bromobenzene 873 mg 3.32 mmol in THF 10 mL was heated at reflux until the magnesium metal was consumed. The resulting mixture was cooled to room temperature and added dropwise to a stirred solution of i 4 a 774 mg 3.33 mmol in THF 5.0 mL at 0 C. After approximately 5 h the reaction mixture was poured into 0.5 N HCl and extracted twice with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried NaSO and concentrated in maw. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel isocratic elution 10 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 4 b. m z ES 399 M OH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.96 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.45 m 7H 7.28 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.91 d 2H J 8.9 Hz 5.05 s 2H 4.37 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 3.39 dt 1H J 7.2 8.3 Hz 2.10 m 3H 1.87 m 1H 1.72 m 2H 1.39 t 3H J 7.0 Hz .

A mixture of i 4b 386 mg 0.927 mmol and palladium hydroxide 50.0 mg of 20 wt. on activated carbon in methanol 10 mL was hydrogenated at atmospheric pressure for 9 h. The resulting mixture was filtered through a short column of Celite eluting copiously with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 15 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound i 4c. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.96 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.26 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.06 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.76 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 4.37 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 3.88 d 1H J 11 Hz 3.03 dt 1H J 8.1 11 Hz 2.05 m 2H 1.90 m 2H 1.75 m 2H 1.39 t 3H J 7.1 Hz .

Intermediate i 4 d was prepared from i 4c following the above procedure as described for intermediate i 1i. m z ES 402 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.61 d 1H J 4.8 Hz 7.95 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.73 dt 1H J 1.7 7.7 Hz 7.54 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.26 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.24 m 1H 7.11 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 6.92 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.19 s 2H 4.37 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 3.89 d 1H J 11 Hz 3.03 dt 1H J 8.1 11 Hz 2.07 m 1H 2.02 m 1H 1.88 m 2H 1.78 m 2H 1.39 t 3H J 7.1 Hz .

Chlorotrimethylsilane 1.50 mL 11.8 mmol was added to a stirred solution of cyclopentanecarboxaldehyde 1.00 g 10.2 mmol phenol 2.90 g 30.8 mmol and 3 mercaptopropionic acid 87.0 L 1.00 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated to 65 for 2 h. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was poured into 0.1N HCl and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 20 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 5a. HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.14 d 4H J 8.5 Hz 6.73 d 4H J 8.7 Hz 3.47 d 1H J 11.2 Hz 2.58 m 1H 1.64 m 4H 1.55 m 2H 1.14 m 2H .

Cesium carbonate 2.20 g 6.75 mmol potassium iodide 1.10 g 6.63 mmol and 2 picolyl chloride hydrochloride 1.10 g 6.71 trump were added to a stirred solution of i 5a 1.80 g 6.71 mmol in DMF 25 mL . After approximately 20 h the reaction was quenched by the addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The resulting mixture was extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 15 40 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 5b. m z ES 360 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.60 d 1H J 4.9 Hz 7.75 m 1H 7.56 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.26 m 1H 7.18 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.13 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.89 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 6.73 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 5.19 s 2H 3.47 d 1H J 11 Hz 2.60 m 1H 1.50 1.70 m 6H 1.14 m 2H .

Lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide 2.20 mL of a 1.0 M solution in THF 2.20 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 5b 650 mg 1.81 mmol in THF 18 mL at 0 C. After 5 min N phenyltrifluoroxnethanesulfonimide 790 mg 2.21 mmol was added and the resulting mixture stirred at 1 C. for 20 min. The reaction mixture was poured into water and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 30 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 5c. m z ES 492 MH .

Palladium II acetate 76.0 mg 0.339 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene 280 mg 0.505 mmol were added successively to a solution of i 5c 840 mg 1.71 moot in triethylamine DMF methanol 30 mL of a 1 10 10 mixture respectively . The reaction mixture was saturated with carbon monoxide and then heated to 80 C. under a carbon monoxide atmosphere balloon for 16 h. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was poured into 0.1N HCl aq and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with water brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 30 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 5d. m z ES 492 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.64 d 1H J 3.9 Hz 7.93 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.91 m 1H 7.69 d 1H J 7.8 Hz 7.40 m 1H 7.34 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.21 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 6.92 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.32 s 2H 3.89 s 3H 3.60 d 1H J 11.2 Hz 2.68 m 1H 1.53 1.72 m 6H 1.16 m 2H .

Intermediate i 5e m z ES 416 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.63 d 1H J 2.8 Hz 7.94 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.88 dd 1H J 7.6 7.7 Hz 7.67 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 738 dd 1H J 5.2 6.7 Hz 7.33 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.20 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 6.92 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 5.30 s 2H 3.88 s 3H 3.51 d 1H J 10.7 Hz 2.09 m 1H 1.66 m 4H 1.20 m 4H 0.87 m 2H .

Intermediate i 5f m z ES 362 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.62 d 1H J 4.4 Hz 7.95 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.76 dt 1H J 1.4 7.8 Hz 7.57 d 1H J 7.8 Hz 7.32 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.26 dd 1H J 5.9 6.0 Hz 7.15 d 2H J 8.9 Hz 6.93 d 2H J 8.9 Hz 5.22 s 2H 3.92 s 3H 1.70 s 6H .

Lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide 8.60 mL of a 1.0 M solution in THF 8.60 mmol was added dropwise to a stirred solution of i 3a 1.70 g 7.79 mmol in THF 40 mL at 78 C. After 10 min iodomethane 0.590 mL 9.48 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature over 4 h. After another 10 h the reaction mixture was quenched by addition of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride and extracted twice with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with 1 N HCl brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 10 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound i 6a. m z ES 233 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.13 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.80 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 4.43 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 1.45 s 3H 1.44 t 3H J 7.1 Hz 1.35 m 2H 0.87 m 2H .

Intermediates i 6b i 6c and i 6d were prepared from i 6a following the above procedures as described for intermediates i 4 b through i 4 d. For i 6d m z ES 402 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.61 d 1H J 4.6 Hz 7.97 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.73 dt 1H J 1.6 7.8 Hz 7.57 d 1H J 7.8 Hz 7.34 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.26 m 1H 7.14 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.92 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.22 s 2H 4.38 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 3.83 s 1H 1.41 t 3H J 7.1 Hz 1.09 s 3H 0.46 m 4H .

Intermediate i 6e was prepared from i 4a following the procedures as described above for making i 6d. m z ES 416 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.61 d 1H J 5.6 Hz 7.96 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.74 dt 1H J 1.8 7.7 Hz 7.56 d 1H J 8.1 Hz 7.28 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 7.25 m 1H 7.12 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.93 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.21 s 2H 4.38 q 2H J 7.1 Hz 4.01 s 1H 2.21 m 2H 1.99 m 1H 1.76 m 1H 1.63 m 2H 1.40 t 3H J 7.1 Hz 1.29 s 3H .

In the Tables in the following Examples compounds having mass spectral data were synthetically prepared.

Hydrazine monohydrate 1.21 mL 25.0 mmol was added to a stirred solution of i 1i 1.06 g 2.72 mmol in ethanol 50 mL and the resulting solution heated at reflux for 2.5 h. After cooling to room temperature the volatiles were removed in vacuo and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic phase was separated washed three times with water brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was dissolved in dioxane 30 mL to which aqueous sodium bicarbonate 245 mg 2.92 mmol in 7.0 mL of water was added dropwise via syringe. A solution of cyanogen bromide 310 mg 2.93 mmol in dioxane 5.0 mL was then added slowly and the resulting mixture was aged at ambient temperature for approximately 18 h. The reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed with brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 100 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound 1a. m z ES 415 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDOD 8.53 d 1H J 4.8 Hz 7.85 dt 1H J 1.6 7.7 Hz 7.79 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 7.58 m 3H 7.40 d 2H J 8.9 Hz 7.35 dd 1H J 5.2 7.0 Hz 6.94 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 5.15 s 2H 3.81 s 1H 1.02 s 9H .

The general procedure described above for making Compound 1a was also be performed using i 1h in place of i 1i to make 5 4 2 2 dimethyl 1 4 pyridin 2 ylmethoxy phenyl propyl phenyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 amine.

Following procedures similar to that described above for making Compound 1a the following compounds in Table I can be prepared 

Additionally two anhydrous crystalline polymorphs Form I and Form II were identified for compound 1a. The X ray powder diffraction pattern observed for Form I of compound 1a has characteristic diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 18.9 6.3 3.8 3.7 and 3.4 angstroms. The X ray powder diffraction pattern was generated on a Philips X pert instrument. Cupper K Alpha radiation was used as the source. The experiment was run at ambient condition.

Differential scanning calorimetry DSC results for Form I of compound 1a were collected at a heating rate of 10 C. min under nitrogen atmosphere in a closed pan. An endotherm due to melting was observed at an extrapolated onset temperature of 203.9 C.

The X ray powder diffraction pattern observed for Form II of compound 1a has characteristic diffraction peaks corresponding to d spacings of 11.7 9.4 5.1 3.7 and 3.4 angstroms. The X ray powder diffraction pattern was generated on a Philips X pert instrument. Cupper K Alpha radiation was used as the source. The experiment was run at ambient condition.

Differential scanning calorimetry DSC results for Form II of compound 1a were collected at a heating rate of 10 C. min under nitrogen atmosphere in a closed pan. An endotherm due to melting was observed at an extrapolated onset temperature of 188.5 C.

In addition to the X ray powder diffraction patterns described above the crystalline forms of compound 1a was further characterized by solid state carbon 13 nuclear magnetic resonance NMR spectra. The solid state carbon 13 NMR spectrum was obtained on a Bruker DSX 400WB NMR system using a Broker 4 mm double resonance CPMAS probe. The carbon 13 NMR spectrum utilized proton carbon 13 cross polarization magic angle spinning with variable amplitude cross polarization. The sample was spun at 15.0 kHz and a total of 1500 scans were collected with a recycle delay of 3 seconds. A line broadening of 40 Hz was applied to the spectrum before FT was performed. Chemical shifts are reported on the TMS scale using the carbonyl carbon of glycine 176.03 p.p.m. as a secondary reference.

Lithium hydroxide monohydrate 162 mg 3.86 mmol was added to i 1i 600 mg 1.54 mmol in dioxane HO 15 mL of a 2 1 mixture and the resulting mixture was heated to 55 C. After 1 h the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature quenched with 0.5 N hydrochloric acid and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed successively with water brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 2a.

Ammonium chloride 706 mg 13.2 mmol HATU 502 mg 1.32 mmol and DIPEA 2.50 mL 14.1 mmol were added to a stirred solution of 2a 330 mg 0.880 mmol in DMF 4.0 mL at room temperature. After approximately 1 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed three times with water saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 100 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound 2b. m z ES 375 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.59 d 1H J 4.6 Hz 7.73 7.69 m 3H 7.52 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.49 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.33 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 7.23 dd 1H J 5.3 6.8 Hz 6.92 d 2H J 8.6 Hz 6.18 6.02 br m 2H 5.18 s 2H 3.74 s 1H 1.02 s 9H .

Cyanuric chloride 170 mg 0.923 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 2b 280 mg 0.748 mmol in DMF 5.0 mL . After 30 min the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and quenched with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate. The reaction mixture was extracted three times with EtOAc and the combined organic extracts were washed twice with water saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 40 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound 2c. in m z ES 357 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.61 d 1H J 4.5 Hz 7.73 dt 1H J 1.8 7.8 Hz 7.58 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.53 m 31 7.32 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.25 dd 1H J 5.2 7.3 Hz 6.95 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.20 s 2H 3.75 s 1H 1.03 s 9H .

Azidotrimethyltin 1.45 g 7.04 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 2c 626 mg 1.76 mmol in toluene 15 mL and the resulting solution heated to reflux for approximately 18 h. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was partially concentrated and diluted with ethanol. Hydrochloric acid 4 N in dioxane was added and after 1 h of vigorous agitation the volatiles were removed in vacuo and the crude residue purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 100 DCM methanol ammonium hydroxide 85 15 1 DCM as eluent to afford the title compound 2d. HNMR 500 MHz CDOD 8.53 d 1H J 4.8 Hz 7.92 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.86 dt 1H J 1.6 7.6 Hz 7.68 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.60 d 1H J 7.8 Hz 7.43 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.37 dd 1H J 4.8 7.0 Hz 6.95 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.16 s 2H 3.85 s 1H 1.04 s 9H .

Iodomethane 67.0 L 1.08 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of cesium carbonate 701 mg 2.15 mmol and 2d 224 mg 0.538 mmol in DMF 5 mL at room temperature. After 2 l the reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic extracts were washed twice with water brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 30 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded in order of elution the title compounds 2e and 2f.

Compound 2e was treated with hydrogen chloride saturated solution in EtOAc and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting product was triturated with ether and lyophilized from acetonitrile HO to afford 2e 2HCl. 2e m z ES 414 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDOD 8.81 d 1H J 6.0 Hz 8.58 m 1H 8.13 d 1H J 8.5 Hz 8.00 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.99 m 1H 7.62 d 2H J 8.3 Hz 7.50 d 1H J 8.9 Hz 7.06 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.48 s 2H 4.41 s 3H 3.86 s 1H 1.05 s 9H .

In a similar manner to that described above compound 2f was converted to 2f 2HCl m z ES 414 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDOD 8.79 d 1H J 5.0 Hz 7.52 t 1H J 7.8 Hz 8.08 d 1H J 8.0 Hz 7.94 dd 1H J 6.0 7.5 Hz 7.40 m 4H 7.51 d 2H J 9.0 Hz 7.06 d 2H J 8.5 Hz 5.45 s 2H 4.19 s 3H 3.92 s 1H 1.06 s 9H .

Following procedures similar to that described above for making Compounds 2e and 2f and procedures similar to that described in Example 6 the following compounds in Table 2 can be prepared 

Cesium carbonate 715 mg 2.19 mmol and 2 1 bromopropyl pyridine 165 mg 0.825 mmol were added to a stirred solution of i 1g 165 mg 0.553 mmol in DMF 2.0 mL at room temperature. After 5 min the resulting mixture was heated to 60 C. and stirred vigorously for approximately 2 h. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was filtered washed with DMF 1.0 mL and poured into a vigorously stirred solution of ice cold brine. A gummy residue precipitated out of solution which was isolated by decanting the supernatant. The crude gum was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel isocratic elution 10 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford the title compound 3a.

Diastereoisomers 3b and 3c were separated using preparative chiral supercritical fluid chromatography Chiralpak AD H stationary phase 250 20 mm column dimensions 40 methanol COas eluent at 50 mL min 100 bar outlet pressure with UV detection at 220 nm . The faster eluting diastereoisomer 3b had a retention time of 4.6 min and the slower eluting enantiomer 3c had a retention time of 8.4 min. The eluants were concentrated to provide 

3b m z ES 417 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.58 d J 5.0 Hz 1H 7.91 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.62 m 1H 7.44 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.37 d 1H J 5 Hz 7.21 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.18 m 1H 6.77 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.13 dd 1H J 5.2 6.3 Hz 3.89 s 3H 3.68 s 1H 2.00 m 2H 1.04 t 3H J 7.4 Hz 0.98 s 9H .

3c m z ES 417 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.59 t 1H J 2.6 Hz 7.93 m 2H 7.63 m 1H 7.46 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.39 m 1H 7.24 d 2H J 8.0 Hz 7.19 m 1H 6.79 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.15 m 1H 3.90 s 3H 3.69 s 1H 2.01 m 2H 1.05 t 3H J 7.3 Hz 0.99 s 9H .

Hydrazine monohydrate 364 mg 3.79 mmol was added to a solution of 3c 165 mg 0.395 mmol in ethanol 3.0 mL and the resulting solution was heated at reflux for 8 h. After cooling to room temperature the volatiles were removed in vacuo and the crude residue was then coevaporated twice from toluene to afford the title compound 3d. m z ES 417 MH . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.58 t 1H J 2.6 Hz 7.63 m 2H 7.57 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.37 m 1H 7.30 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.19 m 1H 7.06 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.49 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.13 m 1H 3.8 4.3 bs 31 3.69 s 1H 2.00 m 2H 1.05 t 3H J 9.6 Hz 1.0 s 9H .

Crude 3d 40.0 mg 0.0967 mmol was suspended in dioxane water 1.3 mL of a 3 1 mixture and cooled to approximately 5 C. A solution of aqueous sodium bicarbonate 22.0 mg 0.237 mmol in water 150 L was added followed by a solution of cyanogen bromide 15.0 mg 0.142 mmol in dioxane 100 L . After 5 min the reaction mixture was warmed to ambient temperature and aged for approximately 1 h. The reaction mixture was poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate brine 1 1 and extracted twice with DCM. The combined organic extracts were dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel isocratic elution 80 EtOAc hexanes as eluent afforded the title compound 3e. m z ES 443 M . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.61 t 1H J 2.6 Hz 7.79 d 2H J 8.8 Hz 7.66 m 1H 7.48 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.40 d 1H J 7.7 Hz 7.25 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.20 m 1H 6.81 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.5 5.8 bs 2H 5.18 t 1H J 6.9 Hz 3.67 s 1H 2.0 m 2H 1.05 t 3H J 7.3 Hz 1.0 s 9H .

Following procedures similar to that described above for making Compound 3e the following compounds in Table 3 can be prepared 

3 Chloroperoxybenzoic acid 38 mg 0.17 mmol was added into a stirred solution of 1a 30.0 mg 0.072 mmol in DCM 1.0 ml at room temperature and stirred for 1.75 h. The reaction mixture was then poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were washed twice with aqueous sodium sulfite 10 w v brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by preparative reversed phase HPLC on YMC Pack Pro C18 stationary phase CHCN HO as eluent 0.05 TEA as modifier followed by lyophilization of the purified fractions afforded the title compound 4a. m z ES 431 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDOD 8.37 d 1H J 6.4 Hz 7.79 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.69 d 1H J 7.3 Hz 7.60 d 2H J 7.5 Hz 7.57 t 1H J 7.7 Hz 7.46 dd 1H J 6.1 8.0 Hz 7.41 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 6.96 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 5.28 s 2H 3.81 s 1H 1.00 s 9H .

Following procedures similar to that described above for making Compound 4a the following compounds in Table 4 can be prepared 

n Butyl lithium 139 mL of a 2M solution in hexanes 277 mmol was added via canula to a stirred solution 1 4 diiodobenzene 89.0 g 277 mmol in THF 500 mL at 78 C. such that the internal temperature was maintained below 65 C. during the addition process. After 0.5 h 3 methyl 2 butanone 24.0 g 280 mmole was added via syringe again maintaining the internal temperature below 65 C. After 0.5 h the reaction mixture was warmed to 0 C. and quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride. The resulting mixture was dried MgSO concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 10 25 EtOAc hexanes to afford the title compound 5a. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.67 d 2H J 7.5 Hz 7.20 d 2H J 7.5 Hz 3.79 s 1H 2.00 m 1H J 7.0 Hz 1.52 s 3H 0.92 d 3H J 7.0 Hz 0.81 d 3H J 7.0 Hz .

A mixture of 5a 56.0 g 193 mmol p TSA 36.0 g 193 mmol and phenol 25.0 g 251 mmol was heated to 95 for 1 h. After cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was partitioned between DCM and water. The separated organic phase was washed with water three times with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 5b. This was used without further purification in the subsequent step.

Cesium carbonate 1.5 equiv. followed by methyl bromo pyridin 2 yl acetate 5i 1 equiv. are added to a stirred solution of 5b 1 equiv. in DMF at room temperature. After completion of reaction the reaction mixture is quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts are washed with water brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compound 5c.

Preparation of methyl bromo pyridin 2 yl acetate 5i A stirred solution of methyl 2 pyridylacetate 10.0 g 66.0 mmol N bromosuccinimide 13.0 g 73.0 mmol and 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile 0.50 g 3.04 mmol in carbon tetrachloride 120 mL was irradiated with a sunlamp source for approximately 15 h. After filtration the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the crude residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 5 10 EtOAc hexane as eluent to afford the title compound 5i.

Lithium diisopropylamide mono THF 1.2 equiv. of a 5M solution in cyclohexane is added to a stirred solution of 5c 1 equiv. in THF at 78 C. After 15 mins 1 3 dimethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrahydro 2 1H pyrimidinone 1 equiv. is added followed by iodomethane 1.5 equiv . After 1 h the reaction mixture is warmed to room temperature and aged until the reaction is deemed complete. The reaction mixture is quenched with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts are washed with water brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel affords the title compound 5d.

Lithium borohydride 1 equiv is added to a stirred solution of 5d 1 equiv in THF at room temperature. After completion of reaction the reaction mixture is quenched with 2 N HCl poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts are washed with water brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel affords the title compound 5e.

A solution of triflic anhydride 1 equiv. in DCM is added to a solution of triphenylphosphine oxide 2 equiv in DCM at 0 C. After precipitation is observed 15 min a solution of 5e 1 equiv in DCM is added. After 5 min sodium borohydride 4 equiv. is added in one portion. After completion of reaction the reaction mixture is quenched with 2 N HCl poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts are washed with water brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel affords the title compound 5f.

A stirred mixture of 5f 1 equiv palladium II acetate 0.1 equiv. 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene 0.2 equiv and triethylamine 2.4 equiv in DMF methanol 1 1 is purged with carbon monoxide for approximately 10 min and then heated to 80 C. under a carbon monoxide atmosphere balloon . After completion of reaction the reaction mixture is cooled to room temperature and then filtered through a short column of CELITE eluting copiously with EtOAc. The filtrate is poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts are washed with water brine dried NaSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel affords the title compound 5g.

Hydrazine monohydrate 10 equiv. is added to a stirred solution of 5g 1 equiv. in ethanol and the resulting solution heated at reflux until 5g is consumed. After cooling to room temperature the volatiles are removed in vacuo and the residue is partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic phase is separated washed three times with water brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue is dissolved in dioxane to which aqueous sodium bicarbonate 1.1 equiv in water is added dropwise via syringe. A solution of cyanogen bromide 1.1 equiv. in dioxane is then added slowly and the resulting mixture is aged at ambient temperature until the reaction is deemed complete. The reaction mixture is poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted three times with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts are washed with brine dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo. Purification of the crude residue by flash chromatography on silica gel affords the title compound 5h. If desired 5h can be resolved into its enantiomeric components using preparative chiral HPLC techniques.

Following procedures similar to that described above for making Compound 5h the following compounds in Table 5 can be prepared 

HCl 1M solution in ethanol slight excess was added to a solution of 2d 42.0 mg 0.102 mmol in EtOH 1.0 mL at room temperature. After 10 min the resulting mixture was concentrated in vacuo to afford crude g. The residue was dissolved in DCM 1.5 mL and to this solution was added N Boc 4 piperidinemethanol 68.0 mg 0.315 mmol triphenylphosphine 132 mg 0.505 mmol and diethyl azodicarboxylate 80.0 l 0.511 mmol . After maintaining the reaction mixture at room temperature for 17 h second portions of N Boc 4 piperidinemethanal 68.0 mg 0.315 mmol triphenylphosphine 132 mg 0.505 mmol and diethyl azodicarboxylate 80.0 l 0.511 mmol were added. The resulting solution was aged for another 5.5 l and then purified directly by flash chromatography on silica gel gradient elution 0 50 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to afford 2h.

Crude 2h 0.102 mmol was dissolved in a pre mixed solution of 4N HCl in dioxane 5.00 mL and deionized water 250 L at 10 C. The resultant solution was warmed to room temperature and aged for approximately 1.3 h. After concentrating in vacuo the residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 100 EtOAc 120 mL followed by 0 100 EtOAc DCM MeOH ammonium hydroxide 95 5 1 to afford compound Ie 2bx Ie 2bx m z ES 497 MH . HNMR 500 MHz CDCl 8.59 d 1H J 4.3 Hz 8.05 d 2H J 8.2 Hz 7.70 dt 1H J 7.6 1.4 Hz 7.53 m 3H 7.36 d 2H J 8.7 Hz 7.21 dd 1H J 6.9 5.1 Hz 6.92 d 2H J 8.4 Hz 5.19 s 2H 4.51 d 2H J 7.1 Hz 3.75 s 1H 3.10 bd 2H J 12.4 Hz 2.60 dt 2H J 12.1 2.0 Hz 2.21 m 1H 1.86 bs 1H 1.60 bd 2H J 12.3 Hz 1.28 m 2H 1.04 s 9H .

Following essentially the same procedure as described in Example 1 for making compound 1a but omitting the flash chromatography step crystalline Form II was obtained. Adding a flash chromatography purification step to this synthetic procedure is not expected to change the crystalline form i.e. 1a Form II thus obtained.

310 mg of Compound k crystalline Form II was dissolved in 5.0 ml of ethanol water content unknown by heating to 63 C. The mixture was cooled to ambient temperature at an approximate rate of 15 C. per hour. The slurry was then re heated to 55 C. solids did not completely dissolve and cooled to room temperature 15 C. hour twice. The crystals were collected by filtration and washed with recycled mother liquors. After drying 220 mg of material was isolated and identified to be Form I.

Although the water content of the ethanol was unknown addition of water for example from 1 up to 20 water in alcohol v v can increase the rate of turnover of Form II to Form I.

250 mg of Compound 1a crystalline Form II was dissolved in 2.5 ml of ethanol and 0.125 ml of water by heating to 60 C. The solution was cooled to 50 C. and seeded with Form I. The slurry was held at 50 C. and then cooled to 40 C. over 1 h. 0.25 ml of water was added to the slurry and it was then reheated to 50 C. and then re cooled to 40 C. twice and then held at 40 C. overnight 18 h at which point a sample of the solids were shown to be Form I by XRPD. The slurry was cooled to room temperature and held overnight. Isolation by filtration afforded Form I.

The addition of water for example from 1 up to 20 water in an alcohol v v can increase the rate of turnover of Form II to Form I when following a seeded procedure as well as an unseeded procedure. The procedures described in examples 7B and 7C can also be performed using isopropanol in place of ethanol. Heating is an element of both seeded and unseeded procedures as well and while Form I can be obtained using a broad range of temperatures a temperature in the range from about 40 C. to 60 C. is preferred. However temperatures outside this range can be used as shown in examples 7B and 7C.

A 100 000 g pellet from human leukocyte 10 000 g supernatants 1 is the source of FLAP. The 100 000 g pellet membranes were resuspended in Tris Tween assay buffer 100 mM Tris HCl pH 7.4 140 mM NaCl 2 mM EDTA 0.5 mM dithiothreitol 5 glycerol 0.05 Tween 20 to yield a final protein concentration of 50 g to 150 g ml. Aliquots 100 l of membrane suspension were added to 12 mm 75 mm polypropylene tubes containing 100 l Tris Tween assay buffer 30 000 cpm of Compound A in 5 l MeOH assay buffer 1 1 and 2 l dimethyl sulfoxide or competitor i.e. the compound to be tested in dimethyl sulfoxide. Compound B 10 M final concentration was used to determine non specific binding. After a 20 minute incubation at room temperature tube contents were diluted to 4 ml with cold 0.1M Tris HCl pH 7.4 0.05 Tween 20 wash buffer and the membranes were collected by filtration of GFB filters presoaked in the wash buffer. Tubes and filters were rinsed with 2 4 ml aliquots of cold wash buffer. Filters were transferred to 12 min 3.5 mm polystyrene tubes for determination of radioactivity by gamma scintillation counting.

Specific binding is defined as total binding minus non specific binding. Total binding was Compound A bound to membranes in the absence of competitor non specific binding was Compound A bound in the presence of 10 uM Compound B. Preparation of Compound A is described in reference 1 below. The ICvalues were obtained by computer analysis see reference 2 below of the experimental data Representative tested compounds of the invention were determined to have an IC

While the invention has been described with reference to certain particular embodiments thereof numerous alternative embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the teachings described herein. All patents patent applications and publications cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

