---

title: Method and apparatus for supporting an integrated discovery and search environment
abstract: A graphical user interface (GUI) implemented by a computer system is disclosed. The GUI includes a search term entry area operable to allow a user to enter text as a search term. The GU includes a hierarchical tree area operable to display data elements in a multi-level hierarchical tree structure, wherein the data elements are representative of searchable data in a database. The GUI includes a search result area operable to display a result of a search query. The GUI includes a search criteria tree area operable to allow a user to enter a new search query of the searchable data in response to the user's selection of one or more of the search term from the search term entry area, data elements from the hierarchical tree area, and result from the search result area, wherein the search term entry area, hierarchical tree area, search results area, and search criteria tree area are displayed together in a single window on the GUI.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08572511&OS=08572511&RS=08572511
owner: Ploughman Analytics, Inc.
number: 08572511
owner_city: Champaign
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110128
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate to a graphical user interface. More specifically embodiments of the present invention relate to a method and apparatus for supporting an integrated discovery and search environment.

Information search and retrieval systems have provided tools for finding information. Such tools provide the capability to search for data listed in directories by name perform free text searching or to search using Boolean expressions in text form. These systems however did not account for the fact that a user performing a search may need to use more than one style or approach to effectively find the information being sought. For example a free text search such as those found commonly on traditional search engines may be helpful in some cases but in other cases may not allow for the serendipitous discovery afforded by browsing through data displayed in an organized list.

In addition many of the tools provided by the information search and retrieval systems suffered from drawbacks such as poor ease of use lack of structure and controlled vocabulary and difficulty in combining information from multiple facets. Furthermore many of the tools allowed for searching of information in either a coarse grained level or a fine grained level of detail but not both.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a graphical user interface GUI includes a search term entry area a hierarchical tree area a search criteria tree area and a search results area. Each of these components is integrated in such a manner to allow a user to iteratively discover develop and execute a desired search objective. According to an alternate embodiment of the present invention one or more mapping areas may be used in place of either the hierarchical tree area and or the search results area to display data elements or results in a different manner.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the GUI supports complex information seeking patterns approaches and paradigms. The GUI facilitates the exploration and discovery of information though an iterative process. For example the GUI allows for the mixing and matching of paradigms for searching. A user may start out with a directed free text search in the search term entry area refine the query by editing the granularity of a given criterion and create a Boolean search with the result and incorporate a search term discovered while browsing through a portion of a hierarchical tree in the hierarchical tree area.

In the following description for purposes of explanation specific nomenclature is set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art that specific details in the description may not be required to practice the embodiments of the present invention. In other instances well known systems devices and components are shown in block diagram form to avoid obscuring embodiments of the present invention unnecessarily.

As shown the computer system includes a processor . The processor is coupled to a CPU bus that transmits data signals between the processor and other components in the computer system . The computer system includes a memory . The memory may be a dynamic random access memory device a static random access memory device and or other memory device. The memory may store instructions and code represented by data signals that may be executed by the processor . A bridge memory controller is coupled to the CPU bus and the memory . The bridge memory controller directs data signals between the processor the memory and other components in the computer system and bridges the data signals between the CPU bus the memory and a first IO bus .

The first IO bus may be a single bus or a combination of multiple buses. The first IO bus provides communication links between components in the computer system . A network controller is coupled to the first IO bus . The network controller may link the computer system to a network of computers not shown and supports communication among the machines. A display device controller is coupled to the first IO bus . The display device controller allows coupling of a display device not shown to the computer system and acts as an interface between the display device and the computer system .

A second bus may be a single bus or a combination of multiple buses. The second bus provides communication links between components in the computer system . A data storage device is coupled to the second bus . The data storage device may be a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a flash memory device or other mass storage device. An input interface is coupled to the second bus . The input interface allows coupling of an input device to the computer system and transmits data signals from an input device to the computer system . A bus bridge couples the first IO bus to the second bus . The bus bridge operates to buffer and bridge data signals between the first IO bus and the second bus . It should be appreciated that computer systems having a different architecture may also be used to implement the computer system .

A GUI may reside in memory and be executed by the processor . The GUI may operate to provide an integrated discovery and search environment. According to an embodiment of the present invention the GUI includes a search term entry area operable to allow a user to enter text as a search term. The GUI also includes a hierarchical tree area operable to display data elements in a multi level hierarchical tree structure wherein the data elements are representative of searchable data in a database. The GUI also includes a search result area operable to display a result of a search query. The GUI also includes a search criteria tree area operable to allow a user to enter a new search query of the searchable data in response to the user s selection of one or more of the search term from the search term entry area data elements from the hierarchical tree area and result from the search result area wherein the search term entry area hierarchical tree area search results area and search criteria tree area are displayed together in a single window on the GUI.

The GUI includes a hierarchical tree area . According to an embodiment of the present invention the hierarchical tree area displays display data elements in a multi level hierarchical tree structure. The data elements may be representative of all or a subset of all the searchable data in a data store. The multi level hierarchical tree structure organizes data into a plurality of levels. Each sub level provides a more specific description of the data than the level directly above it. It should be appreciated that the multi level hierarchical tree structure may include any number of levels greater than 1. Portions of the multi level hierarchical tree structure may be displayed at a time where data elements on the multi level hierarchical tree structure are selectable to expand what is displayed on the GUI and to show additional sub levels. As described above data elements associated with a search term entered in the search term entry area may be highlighted to a user in response to a selection of a highlight option.

The GUI includes a search criteria tree area . According to an embodiment of the present invention the search criteria tree area provides the user an area to enter search criteria for building a search query. For example Boolean searches may be constructed in the search criteria tree area by selecting and moving such as dragging and dropping data elements from the hierarchical tree area and previously returned results from a search results area . The search criteria tree area may operate to display the search criteria in a graphical form. According to an embodiment of the present invention the hierarchical tree area and search criteria tree area may be hidden until a user selects an option to perform an advanced search.

The GUI includes a search result area . According to an embodiment of the present invention the search result area displays results returned from a search query. It should be appreciated that in an alternate embodiment of the present invention mapping areas may be used in place of the hierarchical tree area and or the result area to display data elements and results. Alternatively other graphical or browsable tools may be used in place of the hierarchical tree area and or the result area .

Starting in the search term entry area a user may enter a term a set of terms a phrase or a combination of terms and phrases into the search term entry area . When invoked the criteria will be added to the search criteria tree area . This interaction is illustrated with arrow . According to an embodiment of the present invention the search criteria tree may or may not be visible on the GUI. Upon execution of the search query the search results are displayed in the search results area .

From the search term entry area a user may enter text they wish to find within the hierarchical tree structure multi level hierarchical tree structure in the hierarchical tree area . When a highlight action is invoked the hierarchical tree structure itself is searched for labels of data elements matching the text entered in the search term entry area and the tree structure is expanded as necessary to reveal these labels. This interaction is illustrated with arrow .

The hierarchical tree structure in the hierarchical tree area provides a browsable data set that a user can explore to find information sought. By selecting a data element on the hierarchical tree structure a window is generated that provides additional information on the data element. The additional information may include a detailed profile of the data element. This interaction is illustrated with arrow .

Data elements from the hierarchical tree structure may be selected to be entered into the search criteria tree area to formulate a search query. According to an embodiment of the present invention this may be achieved by dragging the data element across the GUI from the hierarchical tree area to the search criteria tree area . This interaction is illustrated with arrow .

The search criteria tree area is an area on the GUI where search queries may be formulated. In addition to selecting search terms into the search criteria tree area search terms can be selected out to remove them as search criteria. According to one aspect of the present invention selection may be achieved by dragging and dropping. It should be appreciated that other methods of selection may be employed. The search criteria entered into the search criteria tree may be taken from the hierarchical tree area search terms entered from the search term entry area and previous results listed in the search results area . Each criterion may in turn be edited to further specify the level of granularity for a subsequent search query. For example if a search term in the search criteria tree includes any relationship with an organization an edit dialog provided by the search criteria tree area allows a user to specify a specific relationship with the organization.

The search criteria tree area allows Boolean search queries to be formulated by adding grouping folders which act as Boolean operators. User friendly label such as All of these AND Any of these OR and Not one of these Exclusion may be used to build the search queries. Other user friendly labels may be used to represent other Boolean functions. It should be appreciated that the Boolean operators can be nested arbitrarily deeply to enable powerful queries. According to an embodiment of the present invention the search query constructed may be optimized by the computer system implementing the GUI prior to executing the search. The user is given the option to view either the user constructed search query or the optimized query. The results of the executed query are displayed in search results area . This interaction is illustrated with arrow .

The GUI includes a search results area . The search results area is where executed query results are displayed. The results may be displayed in a grid format a map format or other format using a different paradigm. As stated above results displayed in the search results area may be selected and entered into the search criteria tree area to formulate a new search refine a query. This interaction is illustrated with arrow . The search results area may include a filter box to allow the user to enter text that is used to filter the results of the search query displayed in the search results area .

The results displayed in the search results area may be saved and exported. A user may select a variety of formats to save the results such as a Comma Separated Value CSV file tab delimited TAB file or other file format. This interaction is illustrated with arrow .

By selecting a result in the search results area a window is generated that provides additional information on the result. The additional information may include for example a detailed profile of the result. This interaction is illustrated with arrow .

The GUI allows a user to find discover and browse data using multiple tools and paradigms. For example one paradigm may include browsing another may include serendipitous discovery and another may be targeted free text search. The integration of various tools to support searching on the GUI on a single window allows the user to have the flexibility to conduct a rich and thorough search.

Traditional information search and retrieval systems provide tools for finding information. These tools often do not account for the fact that the user performing the search may need to use many different styles and approaches to effectively find the information they seek. For example a free text search such as those found on traditional search engines may be helpful in some cases but may not allow for the serendipitous and or contextual discovery afforded by browsing through hierarchical tree structures. Finding information may be more closely related to an iterative process in which users refine their notion of what they are looking for even as they refine the actual criteria to enable the acquisition of the information sought. It is likely that elements of information returned as a list of results might become part of the criteria as well for example. This may be necessary since the information being sought may have complex relationships to other pieces of information. Relationships may form a hierarchy in which one might want to search at a coarse grained level of abstraction or a very fine grained level of detail. Often it is a combination of the coarse grained and fine grained level that provides the most effective results. Embodiments of the GUI of the present invention provide an integrated discovery and search environment in which a user is able to make use of a mix of styles approaches and strategies to discover and search. This is an improvement over particular implementations of traditional search engines which often require the user to seek information in the manner deemed appropriate by the system developers.

The set of complex nested criteria formulated in the search query illustrates both the flexibility and robustness of the searching function supported by the search criteria tree area .

In this example the user is editing the Related Subjects tab of a person s profile. The information area displays relationships which have been expressed. In this instance relationships between a person s profile and subjects can be expressed as background expertise primaryFocus or researchInterest . The hierarchical tree area may be similar to the hierarchical tree area described earlier. In this example the hierarchical tree area is limited to subjects. The user may perform a search within the hierarchical tree structure to quickly identify and highlight items of interest. Alternatively the user can browse through the hierarchical tree structure to discover items data elements of interest or go directly to an item if they can identify where it resides in the hierarchical tree structure. The GUI has the flexibility to support the user s approach even if the approach changes from interaction to interaction.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the embodiments of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

