---

title: Gas filled hollow fiber laser
abstract: Apparatus, systems, and methods using an optically pumped gas filled hollow fiber laser can be implemented in a variety of applications. In various embodiments, operation of an optically pumped gas filled hollow fiber laser is based on population inversion in the gas. Additional apparatus, systems, and methods are disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09106055&OS=09106055&RS=09106055
owner: 
number: 09106055
owner_city: Arlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110121
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 from International Application No. PCT US20111 022080 entitled GAS FILLED HOLLOW FIBER LASER filed Jan. 21 2011 and published as WO 2011 142849 A2 on Nov. 2011 which application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 297 195 filed 21 Jan. 2010 entitled A GAS FILLED HOLLOW FIBER LASER BASED ON POPULATION INVERSION which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with U.S. Government support under grant number W911NF 08 1 0332 and W911NF 05 1 0507 awarded by the Army Research Office and grant number PHY0722622 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The United States Government has certain rights to the invention.

The need for portable tunable lasers in the mid infrared mid IR is compelling. This eye safe spectral region offers high atmospheric transmission essential to applications such as remote sensing and space based terrestrial imaging and communications. Quantum cascade lasers QCLs have emerged as promising mid IR sources and have even been integrated with photonic crystal resonator structures. However QCLs typically operate from 4 10 m become multi mode at high powers and have thermal management challenges. Optically pumped gas lasers in which a narrow band pump laser is resonant with the gas phase medium can be pumped in the near infrared to produce mid IR emissions but remain bulky and cumbersome.

Hollow core photonic fibers HC PCF have gained wide attention due to their ability to guide in the hollow core with low attenuation over very great distances. Many nonlinear optical phenomena including the demonstration of a Raman laser have been observed in gas filled photonic crystal fibers. Raman lasers have been disclosed that rely on the Raman shift in the gas to shift the wavelength of a laser pulse. Such Raman lasers have many applications including a widely tunable output. However these lasers also have certain limitations. For example these lasers do not lend themselves to coherence conversion that is one cannot readily pump this laser with multiple incoherent sources and still achieve increased coherent output.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings that show by way of illustration and not limitation various example embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice these and other embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural logical and electrical changes may be made to these embodiments. The various embodiments are not necessarily mutually exclusive as some embodiments can be combined with one or more other embodiments to form new embodiments. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

In various embodiments lasers based on molecular vapors optically pumped in the near infrared IR can be arranged to work inside a waveguide. Such operation may be conducted even in the presence of high loss. A hollow optical fiber can be filled with a gas and the gas can be pumped resonantly with a pump laser such that the gas is excited to emit Stokes shifted laser radiation based on stimulated emission. The optical fiber confines both the pump field and the laser field. The laser can be structured such that the gain provided is high enough to allow weakly guided modes to overcome the laser threshold. With a relatively long interaction length between the pump laser and the lasing medium and the small area of the optical fiber a resulting low threshold power and energy can be provided. Lasers constructed in such a manner can operate in a pulsed mode and in a continuous wave CW mode.

A gas filled fiber laser can be implemented that is based on population inversion. Operation based on population inversion is in contrast to the gas based Raman lasers. Further multiple mutually incoherent pump sources can add to the same population inversion of the gas filled fiber laser and thus increase the output of the gas filled fiber laser as a single coherent laser.

A laser constructed with a hollow optical fiber filled with a gas can include the use of a variety of molecular gases. Optically pumped gas lasers OPGLs with molecular gases are attractive candidates for coherent radiation in the mid infrared. Suitable gases include gases that are able to absorb and emit in spectral regions where the fiber losses are sufficiently small. These molecular gases may include but are not limited to acetylene CH hydrogen cyanide HCN carbon monoxide CO carbon dioxide CO hydrogen bromide HBr nitrous oxide NO hydrogen sulfide H and carbonyl sulfide OCS I DF HF IBr HCl HI or any isotopic equivalent of the above gases. An example of a laser constructed with a hollow optical fiber filled with a gas includes but is not limited to a hollow optical fiber filled with acetylene that is pumped by light in the fiber optic telecommunication band having a laser output at about 3 m. Such molecular vapor optically pumped lasers can provide high gain including an acetylene laser at a wavelength of 3.2 m.

These lasers can be used in various applications. For example an application can include but is not limited to combining the output of mutually incoherent sources into one coherent output beam and generating spectrally narrow laser radiation at different wavelengths.

A gas filled fiber laser in accordance with various embodiments of the invention can be realized in a variety of formats. A gas filled fiber laser can use a pump source that provides pulses. The pulsed pumped source can be operated with a 5 10 ns pump source duration. However gas filled fiber laser structures can use shorter or longer pulses. A gas filled fiber laser can use a CW pump source. The use of a pulsed pump source or a CW pump source may depend on the application and or the choice of gas contained in the fiber laser.

Other structural formats for a gas filled fiber laser in accordance with various embodiments can include a sealed or unsealed gas filled fiber. With the gas filled fiber sealed the gas filled fiber laser can operate without using gas cells external to the fiber. The gas filled fiber can be placed between two mirrors to form an optical cavity. The gas filled fiber between the two minors can be either sealed or unsealed. The mirrors can be used to seal the gas filled fiber. Alternatively the mirrors can be disposed outside the gas enclosed part of the hollow optical fiber such that part of a cavity mode includes free space. The minors can be either curved or flat. Various permutations of these and other structural formats may be implemented.

A gas filled fiber laser can be structured with a compact flexible and robust design. Various designs allow for use in portable lasers atmospheric sensing and frequency references in CW form . Multiple gas filled fiber lasers can be combined and phase locked together. Gas filled fiber lasers with small Stokes shifts can be used to coherently combine mutually incoherent pump laser sources.

In various embodiments a laser can be structured as an optically pumped gas laser OPGL based on population inversion in a hollow core photonic crystal fiber HC PCF . For example lasing from population inversion can be generated from gas contained in a hollow core kagome structured photonic crystal fiber. Laser pulses in the mid IR 3.1 3.2 m can be generated by optically pumping at a wavelength of approximately 1.5 m. The optical pumping may be provided as nanosecond pulses. An optically pumped HC PCF gas laser includes characteristics of OPGLs including high damage thresholds and the potential for coherent emission from mutually incoherent pump sources. Furthermore as with OPGLs having molecular gases optically pumped HC PCF gas lasers offer a variety of mid IR wavelengths specifically in the eye safe wavelengths within the atmospheric transmission window. Creating an OPGL inside hollow fiber allows for confining the pump light and laser light over long interaction lengths in a compact configuration. Kagome structured fiber offers very broad guiding bandwidths well suited to optically pumped HC PCF gas lasers in which the pump and lasing wavelengths differ by about a factor of two.

OPO can be used as a pulsed pump source that can generate output pulses 5 6 ns in duration with average pulse energies of approximately 5 mJ. Other duration times and average pulse energies can be used. OPO can be tuned to resonance with the v v R7 transition in CH 1521.06 nm. These pulses can be directed into a vacuum chamber containing HC PCF as a single cell kagome structured optical fiber of 1.65 m length. Kagome HC PCF exhibits strong guiding in the near IR pump region loss approximately 0.75 dB m and weak guiding behavior near 3 m approximately 20 dB m . The gain of laser may be sufficient such that laser can be structured without a cavity in spite of a large fiber loss in the lasing band. Thus laser can operate without minors to form a cavity. Additionally optical electromagnetic radiation to pump the laser can be coupled into one end of HC PCF .

Reduction of the kagome fiber loses of HC PCF at the laser wavelength should substantially increase the slope efficiency and decrease the threshold. Furthermore the addition of an optical cavity or increased kagome fiber length may also improve laser performance. Though the example setup of provides a first demonstration of a HC PCF OPGL which uses a pulsed pump a gas filled fiber laser can be pumped with continuous wave laser sources.

As taught herein in various embodiments an apparatus can comprise a hollow optical fiber and a gas filling the hollow optical fiber where the gas can be selected such that the hollow optical fiber filled with the gas is operable as a laser based on population inversion generated in the gas. The hollow optical fiber can comprise a hollow core photonic crystal fiber. The gas filling the hollow optical fiber can include one of acetylene CH hydrogen cyanide HCN carbon monoxide CO carbon dioxide CO hydrogen bromide HBr nitrous oxide NO hydrogen sulfide HS or carbonyl sulfide OCS iodine gas I deuterium fluoride DF hydrogen fluoride HF Iodine bromide IBr hydrogen chloride HCl and hydrogen iodide HI . Of interest are molecular gases which can be excited by an optical pump and where the excitation leads to a population inversion. Rotational vibrational and electronic states can be involved in the excitation and lasing process depending on the actual molecule. Other gases or gas mixtures can be utilized. For example atomic gases are of interest which can be excited by an optical pump and where the excitation leads to a population inversion between electronic states. A buffer gas can be used where the buffer gas is selected to mitigate thermal effects adjust molecular relaxation rates provide for energy transfer or combinations thereof.

The apparatus can include a pump laser arranged to direct a pump laser signal into the hollow optical fiber where the pump laser signal has a wavelength corresponding to absorption by the gas to attain the population inversion. The pump laser signal can have a wavelength shifted by a nonlinear optical process to become resonant with the gas during propagation through the fiber. The wavelength of the pump laser signal can be converted through nonlinear optical processes while radiation propagates through the fiber. In an example embodiment the wavelength of the pump laser signal can differ from a wavelength of a laser output from the hollow optical fiber by about a factor of two when pumped by the pump laser. The wavelength of the pump laser signal can differ from a wavelength of a laser output by factors other than two. The pump laser can include an optical parametric oscillator. Further the apparatus can include filters to separate an output of the hollow core fiber at the wavelength of the pump laser signal from an output of the hollow core fiber at a wavelength corresponding to the hollow core fiber filled with the gas lasing based on the population inversion of the gas. The hollow optical fiber filled with the gas can be sealed. The sealed hollow optical fiber can be configured between two minors forming an optical cavity.

As taught herein in various embodiments an apparatus can comprise a hollow optical fiber and a gas cell to provide a gas to fill the hollow optical fiber with the gas where the gas can be selected such that the hollow optical fiber filled with the gas is operable as a laser based on population inversion generated in the gas. The hollow optical fiber operable with the gas cell can comprise a hollow core photonic crystal fiber. One end of the hollow optical fiber can be disposed in the gas cell and a second end of the hollow optical fiber can be disposed in a second gas cell. The gas provided using the gas cell can include one of acetylene CH hydrogen cyanide HCN carbon monoxide CO carbon dioxide CO hydrogen bromide HBr nitrous oxide NO hydrogen sulfide HS or carbonyl sulfide OCS I DF HF IBr HCl HI or an isotopic equivalent thereof. Other gases or gas mixtures can be utilized. A buffer gas can be used where the buffer gas is selected to mitigate thermal effects adjust molecular relaxation rates provide for energy transfer or combinations thereof.

In addition to the hollow optical fiber and the gas cell the apparatus can include a pump laser arranged to direct a pump laser signal into the hollow optical fiber where the pump laser signal has a wavelength corresponding to absorption by the gas to attain the population inversion. The pump laser can include an optical parametric oscillator or an optical parametric amplifier. Alternate pump sources some of which are most useful for a continuous wave version of the laser can include diode lasers including bars of multiple diode lasers fiber lasers vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL s and other suitable light sources. Nonlinear processes can be used to shift a non resonant pump into resonance with the pumping transition in the gas. Any pump source that is able to produce a population inversion and that can be coupled to the fiber can be used. Furthermore the gas fiber laser output can coherently combine the output of mutually incoherent pump sources.

The hollow optical fiber operable with the gas cell can be configured between two minors forming an optical cavity. The hollow optical fiber between the two minors can be unsealed.

As taught herein in various embodiments features of a method of operating a laser can comprise optically pumping a hollow fiber where the hollow fiber is filled with a gas such that a population inversion is generated in the gas and providing a laser output from the hollow fiber resulting from the population inversion generated. Optically pumping the hollow fiber filled with the gas can include optically pumping a hollow core photonic crystal fiber filled with the gas. Optically pumping the hollow fiber filled with the gas can include optically pumping a hollow fiber filled with one of acetylene CH hydrogen cyanide HCN carbon monoxide CO carbon dioxide CO hydrogen bromide HBr nitrous oxide NO hydrogen sulfide HS or carbonyl sulfide OCS I DF HF IBr HCl HI or an isotopic equivalent thereof. Other gases or gas mixtures can be utilized. A buffer gas can be used where the buffer gas is selected to mitigate thermal effects adjust molecular relaxation rates provide for energy transfer or combinations thereof. In addition to optically pumping a hollow fiber filled with a gas a method of operating a laser can include using multiple mutually incoherent pump sources to add to the population inversion of the gas and to increase the amount of the laser output from the hollow fiber resulting from the population inversion.

Optically pumping the hollow fiber filled with the gas can include using a pulsed pumped source. Using the pulsed pumped source can include using a pulsed pumped source operated with a pump source duration in the range from about 5 ns to about 10 ns. Optically pumping the hollow fiber filled with the gas can include using a continuous wave pump source.

In various embodiments prior to optically pumping the hollow fiber a method can include filling the hollow fiber with the gas. The gas can include filling the hollow fiber with one of acetylene CH hydrogen cyanide HCN carbon monoxide CO carbon dioxide CO hydrogen bromide HBr nitrous oxide NO hydrogen sulfide HS or carbonyl sulfide OCS I DF HF IBr HCl HI or an isotopic equivalent thereof. Other gases or gas mixtures can be utilized. In various embodiments an apparatus and methods of operating the apparatus can include a gas filled hollow optical fiber operable as a laser based on population inversion of the gas. The gas filled hollow optical fiber can be arranged as an optical amplifier to provide seed light when optically pumped. The gas filled hollow optical fiber arranged as a laser based on population inversion can be operably combined with nonlinear frequency conversion of a pump signal and or laser radiation of the gas filled hollow optical fiber laser. The apparatus can include one or more additional gases operably excited through energy transfer from the optically pumped gas such the excited additional gases are inverted and act as an active laser medium. The gas filled hollow optical fiber can be arranged such that when optically pumped the gas filled hollow optical fiber and the generated population inversion operate as an optical amplifier amplifying continuous way and or pulsed optical signals. The apparatus can be operable to modify output signal radiation from such an optical amplifier using nonlinear processes.

In an example embodiment an OPGL can include an optically pumped HCN gas laser in a HC PCF. The laser can produce mid IR 3.15 and 3.09 m radiation by optically pumping with 1.54 m pump signal. The optically pumping can be conducted using optical pulses for example 1 ns pulses. Other pulse durations can be used.

Compared to traditional gas laser geometries that use gas cells optically pumped gas lasers in a HC PCF may offer a number of enhancements. A kagome structured HC PCF can serve as a cavity that permits long interaction lengths between the pump and gas medium leading to a confinement area on the order of 100 mover distances of tens of meters. Furthermore a kagome HC PCF permits ultra broad multi octave spanning spectral guidance with reasonably low loss 

With CHused in chambers to pump the laser OPA can be tuned to 1.533 m corresponding to excitation of the v vP 13 transition in CH. The pulses can be coupled with 50 efficiency into vacuum chambers containing a single cell kagome structured optical fiber having a length of 33 cm for example. Kagome fiber exhibits strong guiding in the near IR pump region loss of approximately 0.75 dB m and weak guiding at 3 m loss of approximately 20 dB m . The spectral and temporal measurements of the mid IR output can be recorded with a spectrometer and a fast photodiode .

The effect of collisions with a buffer gas on the CHlaser efficiency can be examined. Using the CHfilled HC PCF laser configuration in the example setup of experiments were made for varying active gas buffer gas mixtures. For these measurements CHpressure was kept constant at 7 torr. Helium He was used as the buffer gas.

The experimental setup of can be used with CHreplaced with HCN to provide lasing in a HCN filled HC PCF. Fiber in can be filled with HCN gas and pumped at 1.541 m to attain the P 10 transition to the 2vband. Lasing at 3.147 and 3.091 m can be measured corresponding to the R 8 and P 10 transitions to the vband. In various embodiments a HC PCF laser format can be used for multiple molecular gases other than CHand HCN to generate mid IR radiation.

In various embodiments a HC PCF based laser cavity can provide a universal laser configuration for optically pumped molecular gas lasers with potential low threshold and high slope efficiency with the molecular gas in the HC PCF. Such configurations may be used in applications using coherent beam combination among multiple fibers.

Optically pumped molecular lasers OPML are effective wavelength converters for generating coherent radiation in the mid infrared a spectral region of great interest in applications such as remote sensing and imaging through the atmosphere. These lasers can also be potentially useful as a means to combine output of several incoherent laser sources into one coherent output beam. In order to efficiently deposit energy to the active gas whose line widths are typically smaller than a few GHz narrow band pump sources are typically necessary. Recent advancements in spectral narrowing of high power diode lasers and fibers lasers make these lasers systems well suited for the optical pumping of gases. For example diode laser pumped atomic vapor lasers have been demonstrated and reached output powers exceeding 40 W in the near infrared spectral region. Conventional beam combining and power scaling in the 1.5 m region can be performed using solid core fiber systems. However power scaling in solid core fibers is often limited due to parasitic nonlinear effects e.g. stimulated Brillouin scattering.

In various embodiments gas filled hollow core fibers are configured and operated to lase at desired wavelengths. These gas filled hollow core fibers can avoid the above stated issues while still capitalizing on the characteristics of fiber systems such as compactness long interaction length of pump and laser as well as confinement of modes to small volumes. These gas filled hollow core fiber structures effectively combine a fiber laser with a gas laser by mating an appropriate gas with an appropriate hollow core fiber structure.

Gases have high damage thresholds and offer many possible eye safe emission wavelengths in the atmospheric transmission window. In addition the selection of the appropriate gas may depend on its application. For example in beam combining gas molecules can be used whose absorption spectra match widely available narrow band fiber and or diode lasers. Examples of such gases includes but are not limited to molecular CHand HCN due to their strong absorption bands in the low loss optical fiber telecommunications window approximately 1.5 m where diode and fiber optics technology is well advanced.

An appropriate hollow core optical fiber includes hollow core photonic crystal fibers HC PCF since they can have transmission losses as low as 1.2 dB km at 1.5 m. In addition kagome lattice based HC PCFs have larger bandwidth compared to photonic band gap based hollow core fibers and exhibit multiple transmission regions with relatively low loss. In example embodiments of a gas filled hollow core fiber as discussed herein lasing can be provided by a CHor HCN gas filled kagome HC PCF when pumped in the 1.5 m region. Other lasers can be used to provide an OPML having a hollow core optical fiber such as but not limited to a kagome HC PCF.

At a pressure of 7 torr for a acetylene filled HC PCF laser the spectrum profile of the CHfilled HC PCF is shown in . As discussed above the lasing threshold is about 200 nJ and varies with pressure. The observed laser lines of the acetylene filled HC PCF laser were the same as those seen by a conventional gas cell and cavity arrangement to generate lasing.

A model can be used to qualitatively predict the trends observed in the experiment. In the model a Gaussian pump pulse in resonance with the gas is sent through the fiber which creates a population inversion. The laser pulse develops from spontaneous emission. In this model both pump and probe laser saturate the respective transitions. The linear fiber losses are taken into account in the model. shows simulated laser output as a function of input energy using a saturable absorber amplifier model. The results of the model are in qualitative agreement with experiment. The model also can be used to predict the optimum fiber length for maximum laser output.

In various embodiments a class of optically pumped gas lasers is provided by optically pumped gas lasers based on population inversion. The gas can be confined to a HC PCF whose transmission spans several octaves to reach the mid IR spectral region. Various embodiments of such lasers can produce light near 3 m when pumped at approximately 1.5 m offering a potentially robust efficient and compact means of producing step tunable eye safe mid IR radiation well suited to a multitude of applications.

Compared to solid state laser media gases have attractive properties including high damage thresholds the possibility of heat dissipation through gas circulation relatively large gain cross sections and emission frequencies from the near to far infrared. A variety of optically pumped gas lasers have been demonstrated from the earliest CHF CO and OCS to alkali vapor CO HBr CHand HCN. Some of these mid IR lasers can be pumped via ro vibrational overtones at wavelengths in the optical fiber telecommunication bands where commercial pump sources are well established and readily available. Early work with HBr gas cells pumped at 1.3 m has demonstrated lasing at approximately 4 Ina with conversion efficiencies of approximately 25 . More recently cascade lasing in HBr at wavelengths near 4 m suggests that conversion efficiencies exceeding 50 are possible. The main disadvantage that has limited widespread use of gas lasers and prevented their integration into many practical optical systems is the bulky fragile packaging necessary to achieve long optical path lengths and extract appreciable laser output due to the dilute nature of gas media.

The problem of weak interaction between light and gas has been addressed with the advent of a gas filled HC PCF whereby light and the gas phase are confined to areas on the order of 100 mover distances of tens of meters. A variety of nonlinear optical phenomena have been demonstrated using HC PCF including the development of a gas filled fiber Raman laser and a multi octave spanning Raman frequency comb. A HC PCF consists of a hollow air filled core surrounded by a periodic array of smaller holes. Two classes of HC PCFs have emerged. The first guides via a photonic bandgap and has demonstrated narrow band guidance near 3 m but not the octave spanning guidance. The second represented by a kagome HC PCF guides via a mechanism akin to Von Neumann and Wigner states whereby core and cladding modes can coexist essentially without coupling to each other. As a result of this salient feature a kagome HC PCF permits ultra broad multi octave spanning spectral guidance with reasonably low loss 

The fiber can be formed from high purity low OH content approximately 0.1 ppm fused silica using a stack and draw technique. Light out to approximately 3.4 m is reasonably well guided in the fiber even though fused silica exhibits strong absorption at wavelengths beyond approximately 3 m because the light that propagates is mostly confined to the hollow central core. A 3 ring cladding surrounds a single cell defect core approximately 45 m in diameter with excellent guidance at the pump wavelength of 1.52 m and weak guidance near the laser wavelengths in the mid IR.

Experiments were performed with 1.65 m and 0.95 m long HC PCFs. Filling the evacuated fiber with acetylene CH gas to equilibrium pressures of up to tens of torr takes only minutes owing to the relatively large fiber core and implies average flow rates of approximately 10molecules s. Use of a 19 cell defect fiber with core diameters of 50 70 m would further decrease the filling times and allow even faster flow rates. BK7 glass optics couple in pump light at approximately 1.5 m while CaFoptics couple light out. The laser is pumped with OPO producing pulses roughly 5 ns in duration with a bandwidth of about 3.5 GHz tuned to resonance with the v v R7 ro vibrational transition in CH 1521.06 nm. The pump pulse energy incident on the fiber can be kept below 100 J to avoid damage. Polished germanium wafers filter transmitted pump light from mid IR laser pulses exiting the fiber. The measured output mode profile is shown in illustrating a far field mode profile power of the collimated 3 m beam passing through a 750 m diameter circular aperture as the aperture is scanned transverse to the beam. A fast InGaAs photodetector measures pump pulse energy while a fast HgCdTe photodetector observes mid IR pulses.

Pump pulses excite acetylene molecules from the J 7 rotational state of the vibrational ground state to the J 8 rotational state of the v vvibrational manifold . Acetylene molecules can then leave this excited state via radiative transitions to the vvibrational state with corresponding emission wavelengths in the 3 m region. Alternatively molecules initially in the excited state may exchange energy nonradiatively through intermolecular collisions and collisions with the fiber wall processes that can decrease the overall laser efficiency. The relative contribution of wall collisions is expected to be small at pressures above 2 torr where the calculated mean free path of gas molecules is 

A model can be used to qualitatively predict the trends observed in the setups of and or other designs. The model system can be comprised of only three states a ground state the pumped excited state and a terminal excited state with no direct path for population to transfer to or from the ground state during the time scale of interest. The absorption cross section for the pump transition can be estimated as 7.7 10cm. With data for the stimulated emission cross section for the lasing transition not available it is can be assumed that it is of the same order of magnitude as that for the v vtransition which can be estimated to be approximately 2.2 10cmusing the known Einstein A coefficient. In the model a Gaussian pump pulse 5 ns long and 2 GHz in bandwidth spectrally centered on resonance with the gas at 1.52 m enters the fiber creating a population inversion. The laser pulse develops from spontaneous emission and co propagates with the pump where linear fiber losses are accounted for. The model predicts for the experiment discussed an optimum pressure experimentally observed in which is a function of the fiber length and pump energy. The optimum pressure essentially occurs when a given pump pulse energy just creates enough gain to balance the fiber loss at the end of the fiber. Any further increase in pressure causes additional pump absorption resulting in more loss than gain before the fiber end. A smaller pressure dependent effect arises from the linewidth of the pump transition approximately 1 GHz at 7 torr .

Realization of a gas fiber laser based on population inversion holds great promise for coherence generation applications as well as for engineering high power portable and robust all fiber mid IR sources. Gas filled fiber laser sources can effectively be engineered at numerous wavelengths difficult to obtain with other technologies by carefully selecting the gas and designing the optical fiber. The gas can be selected that absorbs at wavelengths where inexpensive high power pump sources exist and lase at a wavelength of interest. The associated fiber can be selected to be highly transmissive at both the pump and laser frequencies while suppressing lasing on unwanted transitions. While the performance of solid core fiber lasers at high powers can be limited by the onset of nonlinear processes such as Brillouin and Raman scattering gas filled HC PCF lasers can be expected to surpass these limits and have higher thresholds for damage because no glass or other host material is present in the high intensity region of the propagating modes. Thus phase locking multiple gas filled fiber lasers together may achieve higher ultimate powers than can be realized with solid core systems. Sealing the fiber permits an all fiber device facilitating easy integration into optical systems. Many potential applications use CW operation of a laser. This operation may rely on fast repopulation of the ground state which may favor asymmetric molecules or require buffer gases for tailored energy transfer. The addition of buffer gases may speed rotational mixing of the excited state population remove population from unwanted vibrational states and accelerate heat dissipation. Furthermore extremely efficient molecular CW lasers with very small quantum defects similar to alkali vapor lasers may be appropriate with PCFs.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. Upon studying the disclosure it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the devices and methods of various embodiments of the invention. Various embodiments can use permutations and or combinations of embodiments described herein. Other embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the embodiments disclosed herein. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive and that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description.

