---

title: Method and apparatus for radioablation of regular targets such as sympathetic nerves
abstract: Techniques for radioablation of sympathetic nerves include positioning a subject on a support in view of a volume imaging system and an ionizing radiation source; and collecting volume image data. Location of a treatment portion of a sympathetic nerve in the subject is determined based on the volume image data. Movement of the source is determined to apply a therapeutic radiation dose to the treatment portion based on the location of the treatment portion and relative location of the source to the volume imaging system. The source is operated to deliver the therapeutic radiation dose. An apparatus includes a mounting structure, an X-ray source and a shield. The source produces an X-ray beam with photon energy above one million electron volts (MeV) and not above six MeV. The shield is mounted in opposition to the source to block the X-ray beam with photon energies not greater than about six MeV.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09072894&OS=09072894&RS=09072894
owner: The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University
number: 09072894
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110114
---
This application claims benefit of Provisional Appln. 61 295 767 filed Jan. 18 2010 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. 5TL1RR025742 02 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Hypertension is a significant health care issue estimated to affect 30 40 of adults in the developed world and increasing in prevalence in the developing countries. Despite the numerous single agent and combination therapies available large swathes of patients ultimately prove unresponsive refractory to established therapies. Some of these patients are unable to adhere to a life long course of drug therapy for a disease that is asymptomatic until its devastating conclusion. Others cases are refractory despite the best attempts of both patients and physicians. Both classes of patients are at high risk for end organ damage leading to morbidity and mortality from their hypertension and both would benefit from a procedure that 1 eliminates the need for lifelong pharmacotherapy and 2 radically departs from pathways targeted by established anti hypertensive therapy. This is especially true in populations for whom control of hypertension has clear and dramatic effects on survival. In dialysis dependent patients for example control of hypertension reduces mortality risk by half.

The renal sympathetic nervous system including both afferent and efferent fibers runs adjacent to the renal artery. These fibers are critical for the initiation and maintenance of systemic hypertension. In both animal models and small clinical series surgical methods of renal sympathetic removal of nerves denervation often via removal of the entire kidney full nephrectomy led to a dramatic lowering of blood pressure in patients who were otherwise refractory to all existing therapies. The risks in morbidity mortality and long term complications associated with a full nephrectomy however have prevented this therapy from wide adoption.

Therefore there is a need for denervation of sympathetic nerves such as a non invasive procedure which does not suffer the disadvantage of previous approaches. For example there is a need for ablating dysfunctional sympathetic nerves using high dose precisely applied radiation called radioablation herein . In various embodiments radioablation is used for treatment of the renal sympathetic nerves for amelioration of refractory hypertension and treatment of the thoracic sympathetic nerves for prevention of ventricular arrhythmia. While these treatments can be carried out on existing clinical linear accelerators sympathetic nerve targets are superficial these targets are uniform in size and shape and the potential patient population is large. Thus in some embodiments a dedicated linear accelerator system for targeting sympathetic nerve targets and other regular targets is vastly simplified without sacrificing precision of treatment.

According to a first set of embodiments a method includes positioning a subject on a support in view of a volume imaging system and an ionizing radiation source. Volume image data is collected for the subject based on the volume imaging system. Location of a treatment portion of a sympathetic nerve in the subject is determined based at least in part on the volume image data. Movement of the ionizing radiation source to apply a therapeutic radiation dose to the treatment portion of the sympathetic nerve is determined based at least in part on the location of the treatment portion of the sympathetic nerve and relative location of the ionizing radiation source to the volume imaging system. The ionizing radiation source is operated to deliver the therapeutic radiation dose to the treatment portion of the sympathetic nerve.

According to a second set of embodiments an apparatus includes a mounting structure an X ray source and a shield. The X ray source is mounted to the mounting structure and the X ray source produces an X ray beam that includes photons with photon energy above 1 million electron volts and does not include photons with photon energy above six million electron volts. The shield is mounted on the mounting structure in opposition to the X ray source to block the X ray beam from the X ray source for photons with photon energies not greater than about six million electron volts.

In some embodiments of the second set the X ray source excludes a multi leaf collimator and further comprises at least one shaping cone configured to target at least one sympathetic nerve in a living body.

In some embodiments of the second set the apparatus includes a volume imaging system mounted on the mounting structure in a predetermined relationship to the X ray source.

In some embodiments of the second set the apparatus includes a subject support wherein the subject support is disposed between the X ray source and the shield in rotatable orientation relative to the mounting structure. In some of these embodiments the subject support is a chair that supports a subject in a seated position.

According to various other sets of embodiments a computer readable storage medium or an apparatus is configured to perform one or more steps of the above method.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

A method apparatus and software are disclosed for radioablation of portions of sympathetic nerves. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Although several embodiments of the invention are discussed with respect to treatment of renal sympathetic nerves with an X ray source that includes an electron gun embodiments of the invention are not limited to this context. It is explicitly anticipated that other sympathetic nerves and similar regularly shaped shallow structures may also be targeted such as a thoracic sympathetic nerve associated with arrhythmia Pain syndromes hyperhidrosis excessive facial flushing dysautonomia for example with spinal cord or brain injury postural dysregulation asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease mediated by thoracic and bronchiolar sympathetic nerves nutcracker esophagus and other disorders of gut motility gastroparesis abnormalities in pupil function or atrigeminal neuralgia arteriovenous malformations brain lesions metastatic lesions to the brain meningiomas etc boost for head and neck cancer acoustic neuromas chordomas metastatic lesions to the spine early primary lung lesions metastatic lesions to the liver. It is also expressly anticipated that other types of ionizing radiation may be produced by the linear accelerators such as gamma rays from Cobalt 60.

Ionizing radiation causes electrons in atoms in a material to break free of their atoms thus causing ions. Thus it requires photons with enough energy to free these electrons. The energy of individual photons is proportional to the frequency of the radiation by Planck s constant and inversely proportional to the wavelength . The energy of a photon is expressed in terms of election volts eV the amount of energy imparted to one electron by an electric field of one volt. Particles or photons with energies above a few electron volts eV are ionizing. X rays have wavelengths in the range of about 0.01 to 10 nanometers nm 1 nm 10meters corresponding to frequencies in the range of about 3 10hertz Hz to 3 10Hz and photon energies in the range from about 120 eV to 120 kilo electron volts KeV 1 KeV 10eV and above to tens of mega electron volts MeV 1 MeV 10eV .

The number of photons impinging within a period of time called the intensity or energy flux determines how much of the material will be ionized. Dose indicates the time integrated amount of ionizing energy absorbed by a material. Dose is expressed in the units of grays Gy where 1 Gy 1 joule kilogram and represents the amount of radiation required to deposit 1 joule of energy in 1 kilogram of any kind of matter.

The system also includes a subject support structure that includes a stationary base and a translating support collectively referenced hereinafter as subject support structure . The system further includes shielding structures to block ionizing radiation emitted from the LINAC such as floor shielding panel and front and back wall shielding panels and respectively collectively referenced hereinafter as shielding structures . Thus this apparatus includes a subject support wherein the subject support is disposed between the X ray source e.g. LINAC and the shield e.g. panel in rotatable orientation relative to the mounting structure floor because the LINAC rotates with the rotating portion .

Operation of the LINAC CT system gantry and subject support structure are coordinated by a controller . In some embodiments the controller includes or is included in one or more programmed computers or chip sets or some combination as described in more detail below with reference to and . Though controller is depicted as connected by wires to LINAC CT system and subject support structure for purposes of illustration in other embodiments one or more connections are wireless communication channels. While subject is also depicted in to illustrate the operation of the system the subject is not part of the system .

The system is used routinely to ablate non invasively a target in subject such as irregularly shaped target like a tumor. The target size shape and location in the subject are determined by human analyst using volume imaging data from the CT system . The CT source passes a low photon energy beam at a dose that does not cause damaging ionization through the subject at multiple different angles in the vertical plane and at multiple positions of subject on translating support . The different angles are obtained by rotating the rotating portion in the vertical plane as indicted by rotation direction arrow . The different horizontal positions are obtained by translating the translating support in a horizontal direction indicated by arrow which is nearly or precisely perpendicular to the vertical plane of the gantry rotation . Each beam is received by a two dimension array of sensors in the detector . Computed tomography is used as is well known in the art to deduce a volume image of the insides of at least a portion of subject from the multiple two dimensional images provided by detector . In various embodiments controller performs the computer tomography calculations or exports data to a separate device on a network which performs the calculations and returns the volume imagery data. One or more analysts such as medical radiologists or physicians interpret the images to deduce the size shape and location of the target . This determination by the analysts can take hours over the course of several days. The analysts then provide the boundary of the target which is converted by the controller into the coordinate space used by the system .

Once the size shape and location of the target is known and the treatment plan is created and approved by the physician the LINAC is operated to emit an ionizing beam of sufficiently high photon energy that repeated exposure to the beam cause ablation of exposed tissue. A solution is determined that indicates how to operate the LINAC to repeatedly expose tissue inside the target to the beam while minimizing the exposure of tissue in the subject outside the target . The LINAC is operated by controlling the intensity or photon energy or both of the emitted beam and rotating the LINAC in the vertical plane by virtue of rotation of rotating portion of gantry to attack the target from different vertical angles and moving the subject horizontally by virtue of the translating support to attack different parts of the target. For example a dosimetrist or physicist computes the optimal beam energies beam angles and beam shapes to deliver the prescribed dose to the prescribed target with minimal exposure of adjacent tissues. Adjacent organs and structures at high risk are often contoured and identified and have maximal tolerable doses prescribed to aid in planning. Existing computer algorithms are known to deduce the solution called the treatment plan for existing LINACs rotations and translations. Once the solution is determined the subject is re positioned on the support structure as described in more detail below and the controller operates the LINAC gantry and support structure according to the solution. In some embodiments using a rotating gantry the target is centered at the axis of rotation of the gantry. In some embodiments the LINAC at least is disposed on a robotic arm so that more complex movements in the vertical plane can be accomplished to compensate for a non centered target .

The LINAC of system is designed to output a wide range of photon energy values and intensities for beams of widely varying beam widths to allow a very general target to be ablated. Such design adds to the cost and complexity of both the LINAC and the shielding .

A LINAC emits electrons accelerates them as an electron beam in an electric field to high energy and then using electric or magnetic fields directs the electron beam onto an object made up of material that tends to absorb the electrons. At the object the electrons are decelerated giving off the lost kinetic energy as photons with photon energies related to the energy of the electron beam. The resulting X ray beam is made up of a spectrum of photon energies. The maximum energy is approximately equal to the beam s maximum electric potential times the electron charge. An electron beam accelerated in a one megavolt MV 1 MV 10volts electric potential produces X ray photons of photon energies no greater than about 1 MeV. The mean photon energy in the X ray beam is only about one third of the maximum energy. Conventionally the maximum electric potential used by the linear accelerator to accelerate electrons to produce the X ray beam is used to name the X ray beam produced. Thus the energy of diagnostic and therapeutic X ray beams comprising a mixture of photon energies is often expressed in kilovolts kV or megavolts MV rather than keV or MeV. Beam quality and hardness may be improved by special filters which improve the homogeneity of the X ray spectrum.

In the illustrated LINAC a control unit causes a modulator to operate an electron gun to emit electrons at a certain rate in an initial electron beam with an initial energy. The electrons are accelerated between electric plates with phased voltages in accelerating waveguide to the maximum energy e.g. several MV as is well known in the art. In the electron beam transport component the electron beam is directed onto an object that decelerates and absorbs the electrons. The electron gun accelerating waveguide and electron beam transport component are all maintained in a vacuum by vacuum system to avoid collisions of gas molecules with the electrons in the electron beam as is well known in the art.

The components of a LINAC include a power supply that provides DC power to modulator . The modulator has a pulse forming network which provides direct current DC pulses to a thyratron that uses these pulses as a switch to deliver the pulses to the electron gun and simultaneously to a microwave source e.g. a magnetron or klystron . The electron gun produces a stream of electrons that enter the proximal part of the wave guide . The microwave source produces pulsed microwaves which are introduced into the wave guide by a rectangular tube which is filled with high pressure sulfur hexafluoride SF6 gas from gas pressure system . The SF6 gas is used because it is stable and won t arc at the high voltages involved. The wave guide is a copper tube with the interior divided by copper discs or diaphragms and is evacuated to a high vacuum by an ion pump vacuum system . The electrons ejected from the electron gun interact with the tuned microwave produced by the microwave source absorb energy and are accelerated similar to a surfer riding a wave . A water cooling system keeps the temperature of the waveguide constant.

The components and are well known in the art. See for example Karzmark C. J. Atlantic Books ISBN 0944838669 1997 hereinafter Karzmark the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein except for terminology that is inconsistent with the terminology used herein.

Once the X rays are produced at the object the X ray photons fan out in the forward direction down in and are shaped by several X ray absorbing or diffracting components called X ray optics herein . The fan is shaped into an initial X ray beam using primary collimators . Strong intensity variations across the beam cross section at some X ray energies are homogenized using a flattening filter . The X ray beam cross section is detected in dual ion chamber . The X ray beam is further shaped by passing through variable channel widths in upper jaws with channel for one horizontal direction and through variable channel widths in lower jaws with channel for the perpendicular horizontal direction. Time variable shaping of beam width during operation according to a treatment plan is provided by the multileaf collimator that includes thin independently moving leaves of tungsten that shape the treatment field. The components and are well known in the art. See for example 

The LINAC is capable of producing X ray beams with a wide range of energies e.g. 1 to 25 MV X ray beams. Such state of the art clinical linear accelerators were designed to be capable of treating 1 irregularly shaped targets that deform unpredictably during respiratory or gastrointestinal motion 2 targets of significantly different sizes 3 lesions of various depths within the body. These capabilities are not necessary for treatment of dysfunctional sympathetic nerves because these nerves are for the most part superficial the target is uniform in shape and size and not dramatically deformed by breathing or gastrointestinal motion.

In some embodiments a modified device is designed for the precise delivery of high dose lower photon energy focused beams of radiation to small discrete targets of consistent depth such as the sympathetic nerves. The device consists of a simplified linear accelerator producing a fixed energy beam selected in a range from about 2 MV to about 6 MV. The reduced maximum energy reduces the amount of shielding that must be provided. Thus in some embodiments an apparatus includes an X ray source that produces an X ray beam that includes photons with photon energy above 1 million electron and does not include photons with photon energy above six million electron volts.

The X ray optics are also reduced and simplified. The X ray optics include the primary collimators the dual ion chamber upper jaws with channel and lower jaws with channel as described above. However a flattening filter is omitted because the lower energy X ray beam is satisfactorily uniform across the beam cross section for the regular shaped targets presented by sympathetic nerves. Given the small diameter of treatment fields for sympathetic nerves and the capacity to account for residual non flat dose distributions in the treatment software no flattening filter is included. Omitting the flattening filter allows for higher dose rates which results in faster dose delivery. Current LINACs allow dose rates up to 2400 monitor units MU per minute min corresponding to about 24 Gy min under some conditions.

Similarly given the small size of sympathetic nerve targets no field shaping via costly multileaf collimators is necessary. Thus the multileaf collimator is omitted and replaced by a cone that shapes the beam cross section for one or more of the limited number of targets. This change reduces radiation exposure to the patient from leakage through and between the leaves and reduces the programming controls motors necessary to run the collimators thus reducing the size weight and cost of the LINAC .

In some embodiments differently sized cones are switched manually. For example in some embodiments one cone is used for targeting the renal sympathetic nerves of all adult patients. A second cone replaces cone for another set of one or more regular shaped targets such as the thoracic sympathetic nerve targeted to control arrhythmia. Thus the high energy radiation beam is shaped by interchangeable cones of fixed apertures instead of multileaf collimators. In some embodiments an adjustable cone collimator allows automatic adjustment of the field size. Such cones with variable aperture exist and incorporate twelve 60 millimeter tall prism shaped tungsten copper alloy segments in two banks of six for shaping the radiation beam. The banks rotate with respect to each other and thus create field variable sizes. See for example Echner G G Kilby W Lee M Earnst E Sayeh S Schlaefer A Rhein B Dooley J R Lang C Blanck O Lessard E Maurer C R Jr Schlegel W. The design physical properties and clinical utility of an iris collimator for robotic radiosurgery 54 18 5359 80 2009 Sep. 21 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein except for terminology that is inconsistent with the terminology used herein. Thus in some of these embodiments the X ray source excludes a multi leaf collimator and further comprises at least one shaping cone configured to target at least one sympathetic nerve in a living body.

The controller used as controller is also simplified and is configured to drive the LINAC for a smaller variety of targets in a subject in some embodiments. The EPID with source and detector is as described above.

With such a lower energy source less shielding is needed and the shield can be mounted on the same support as the LINAC. Thus in these embodiments an apparatus includes the lower energy X ray source a mounting structure and a shield mounted on the mounting structure in opposition to the X ray source to block the X ray beam from the X ray source for photons with photon energies not greater than about six million electron volts.

In some embodiments the modified linear accelerator is mounted on a swing gantry. Also mounted on the same or independent gantry is a keV source detector set such as EPID capable of cone beam CT for 3D anatomy match portal imaging and fluoroscopy. In some embodiments the subject support table is replaced by a dynamic support structure capable of six direction movement positive and negative in each of two horizontal and one vertical dimension . In some embodiments the support table is capable of pitch and yaw movement which permits execution of non coplanar treatment plans and optimization of patient position.

In some embodiments the modified LINAC is mounted on a horizontal gantry. are diagrams that illustrate views of a different example system for radioablation of a sympathetic nerve according to one embodiment. depicts a first perspective view of system from above. In this embodiment the LINAC is mounted on a horizontal gantry with cone protruding inside. Opposite the LINAC is a primary barrier that acts as a shield to block the highest energy X rays photons output by the LINAC . Because the maximum energy X ray beam is limited e.g. to 6 MV the size of the barrier is limited thus reducing the total size and weight of horizontal gantry . In some embodiments the other walls of the horizontal gantry also provide some shielding. Again because the maximum energy X ray beam is limited e.g. to 6 MV the weight of horizontal gantry is limited. An X ray beam emitted by the LINAC passes through the subject who is seated as described below and the X ray beam is blocked by the primary barrier . Thus the apparatus includes a mounting structure e.g. gantry and the X ray source and a shield primary barrier mounted to the mounting structure. The X ray source produces an X ray beam that includes photons with photon energy above 1 million electron volts and does not include photons with photon energy above six million electron volts. The shield is mounted to block the X ray beam from the X ray source for photons with photon energies not greater than about six million electron volts.

In the line of the beam is a chair support for supporting a subject in a seated position. An advantage of a seated position is to accommodate patients with existing cardiovascular or pulmonary symptoms who cannot lie flat for long periods of time. In some embodiments there are arm supports for arms up position or arms down position. In some embodiments custom made molds fit patients precisely and consistently and are laid over the chair support . In some embodiments the treatment chair has six degrees of freedom for reproducibility of anatomy matching prior to delivery of dose. For patients with cardiovascular disease for whom lying flat is a challenge this will be especially helpful. Present treatment beds offer adjustments in height rotation and shifts along the superior inferior axis and left right. Newer beds also offer roll and pitch. Thus the chair support in some embodiments is configured to offer six degrees of freedom of adjustment for precise positioning.

The chair is rotatably connected to the horizontal gantry and components fixed thereto. In some embodiments the horizontal gantry and components fixed thereto are stationary and the chair rotates with the subject. In some of these embodiments the shielding of the horizontal gantry is provided by burying the system in a floor of a basement. In some embodiments for the comfort of the patient the chair and subject do not rotate rapidly or the gantry and components fixed thereto rotate in the horizontal plane or some combination. This is possible because of the lower maximum energy of the X ray beam and corresponding lower weight of the primary barrier . Thus this apparatus includes a subject support wherein the subject support is disposed between the X ray source and the shield in rotatable orientation relative to the mounting structure. In the illustrated embodiment the subject support is a chair that supports a subject in a seated position.

In a pre determined position relative to the LINAC is a KeV imaging system. For example a connecting structure fixes the gantry to a C arm which terminates on the KeV source and KeV imaging detector of a volume imaging system. The KeV source emits a cone beam that passes through the subject in the chair support and impinges on the KeV imaging detector . Thus the apparatus includes a volume imaging system KeV imaging system or mounted on the mounting structure in a predetermined relationship to the X ray source. In the illustrated embodiment the volume imaging system further comprises a different X ray source e.g. KeV source or that produces an X ray frequency with photon energy below about one hundred thousand electron volts.

Although a particular set of components and structures are shown in for purposes of illustration in various other embodiments more or fewer components and structures providing similar or analogous functions are involved.

The system with LINAC used as LINAC can be operated to ablate an arbitrary target using the steps of the method depicted in described next. In some embodiments the system with LINAC or LINAC used as LINAC is operated to ablate a sympathetic nerve target using the steps of the modified method depicted in as described in more detail below. If LINAC is used the shielding of system can be reduced. For example panels and can be omitted. In some embodiments the system with LINAC is operated to ablate a sympathetic nerve target using the steps of the method depicted in described in more detail below.

In step a subject is positioned in supine orientation in view of the LINAC and volume imaging system. For example a patient is brought into the clinical CT scanner placed supine in treatment position arms on chest spine aligned for renal sympathectomy arms above head for thoracic sympathectomy on translating support and moved so that the target is in view of the CT scanner and a CT reference point is set. In some embodiments the patient is also in view of the source of ionizing radiation such as LINAC . Thus step includes positioning a subject on a support in view of a volume imaging system and an ionizing radiation source.

In step reference points indicated by the device such as laser beam emitted by the volume imaging system are tattooed on the subject. For example three reference laser beams from the device indicate points on the patient s torso that are marked and tattooed on the patient s skin. This is so the patient can leave the area while a treatment solution is obtained and then be re positioned on the translating support for delivery of the dose of ionizing radiation.

In step the volume imaging system such as the EPID CT imager is operated to perform a respiration gated CT scan. The CT images are acquired and indexed to phase of the subject s breathing cycle to measure the displacement of the target in successive images. Accounting for such displacement enhances the resolution of determining the target location size and shape. For example the patient is scanned through the area to the treated. For renal sympathetic denervation this would be the kidneys. For thoracic sympathectomy this would be the thorax. A respiratory gated scan may be obtained to follow organ motion during the respiratory cycle. The controller controls the operation of the volume imaging system or and collects and stores the measured and derived images. Thus this step includes collecting volume image data for the subject based on the volume imaging system.

In step the subject is released to leave the area. For example the subject sits up or relocates to a room or residence to return hours or days later when a treatment solution is available.

In step the scans from the volume imager are analyzed to determine the target location size and shape and respiration related target motion. In some embodiments the determination is based at least in part on human input. For example the patient s CT images are compiled the respiratory cycle with the least organ motion is identified. The target is identified by a human analyst renal artery for renal sympathetic denervation and the thoracic sympathetic ganglion for thoracic sympathectomy . Normal critical structures are contoured by the human analyst to help calculate dose to normal structures. A prescription of dose to the target is given by the human analyst. Acceptable tolerance doses for surrounding critical structures are given by the human analyst. The human analyst indicates whether the treatment plan is to be confined to one plane coplanar or not non coplanar . The human analyst also determines and indicates whether the dose is delivered in one or more dose fractions. This input is received at the controller .

Thus step includes determining location of a treatment portion of a sympathetic nerve in the subject based at least in part on the volume image data. For example a five centimeter long cylinder with diameter 1 millimeter aligned with the axis of the renal sympathetic nerve is taken as the target size and shape and location to ablate the renal sympathetic nerve. In other embodiments longer and shorter cylinders such as cylinders about 0.5 centimeters to about 10 centimeters are used as the target for the treatment portion of the renal sympathetic nerve. In some embodiments the target is multiple cylinders of similar shape. In some embodiments the target volume is chosen to avoid dangerous doses to surrounding radiosensitive organs for example the spinal cord or nearby bowel urethra and kidney during renal sympathectomy. For example in some embodiments the target is chosen at a treatment portion of the renal sympathetic nerve located about midway between the renal pelvis and the takeoff of the renal artery from the aorta. Thus in some embodiments step includes determining a treatment portion of the renal sympathetic nerve is about 0.5 to about 10.0 centimeters long.

In some embodiments in which the target is a renal sympathetic nerve 120 Gy is determined to be an effective dose. It is expected that half this dose is also effective as is a greater dose. See for example 23 6 E3 2007 showing that a dose of 60 Gy can partially block the trigeminal nerve. Reportedly atrial fibrillation can be isolated with doses in the 20 30 Gy range. Thus in some embodiments in which the target is a thoracic sympathetic nerve 20 30 Gy is an effective dose. Thus in some embodiments even lower doses may be effective e.g. down to about 10 Gy. Thus in some embodiments the therapeutic radiation dose is in a range from about 10 Gy to about 180 Gy.

In step the treatment is planned for an arbitrary shaped target. For example treatment planning software is used to develop a treatment plan that achieves the dose to the target but stays below the tolerance dose to the surrounding structures. The treatment planning software is executed on one or more computers or chip sets included in controller . Such planning software is well known in the art. See for example Eclipse from VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS of Palo Alto Calif. or Ann Van Escha Laura Tillikainen Jukka Pyykkonen Mikko Tenhunen Hannu Helminen Sami Siljamaki Jyrki Alakuijala Marta Paiusco Mauro Iori and Dominique P. Huyskens Testing of the analytical anisotropic algorithm for photon dose calculation 33 11 4130 4148 17 Oct. 2006 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein except so far as the terminology is inconsistent with the terminology used herein.

In some embodiments these algorithms determine an initial plan for operating the system calculate the dose delivered based on properties of the system and a model of the properties of the subject compares the calculated dose to the desired treatment determines any differences and determines changes to the plan to increase the dose on the target or decrease the dose on normal tissue to reduce those differences. Then the steps are repeated with the changed plan until the differences from the desired treatment are within acceptable tolerances. If an acceptable treatment is not determined the analyst is informed and a different set of desired treatment parameters are determined by the analyst.

Thus step includes determining movement of the ionizing radiation source to apply a therapeutic radiation dose to the treatment portion of the sympathetic nerve based at least in part on the location of the treatment portion of the sympathetic nerve and relative location of the ionizing radiation source to the volume imaging system.

In step the subject is re positioned in supine orientation based on the tattoos and reference points. For example the patient returns for delivery of treatment and is set up in the same position as for the initial scan. This is confirmed by alignment of CT reference points. For example the patient is moved until the laser spots from the device align with the tattoos on the skin of the patient.

In step the volume imaging system is operated to confirm the position of the subject and target. For example three dimensional 3D anatomy matching by cone beam CT CBCT is performed with the patient on the treatment table in the treatment position to determine if the currently produced image sufficiently matches the stored images taken during step . Such 3D anatomy matching is well known in the art. See for example Z. Wang J Nelson S Yoo J Wu J Kirkpatrick L Marks and F F Yin Refinement of Treatment Setup and Target Localization Accuracy Using Three Dimensional Cone Beam Computed Tomography for Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy 73 2 571 577 1 Feb. 2009 and F F Yin Z Wang S Yoo J Wu J Kirkpatrick N Lanier J Meyer C G Willett L Marks Integration of cone beam CT in stereotactic body radiation therapy 7 2 133 9 April 2008 and 3D matching for setup of pediatric patients 11 4 3388 11 Oct. 2010 and 3D matching for mobile abdominal targets 4 329 19 Oct. 2010 and 3D matching with 1 mm accuracy 8 Sep. 2010 and Automated 3D matching 37 7 3677 86 July 2010 the contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein except for terminology that is inconsistent with the terminology used herein. Thus step also includes determining location of a treatment portion of a sympathetic nerve in the subject based at least in part on the volume image data. In some embodiments the target is a portion of a renal sympathetic nerve. In some embodiments the target is a portion of a thoracic sympathetic nerve.

In step the LINAC is operated according to the treatment plan to deliver the treatment dose fraction to the target. The controller operates the LINAC based on the treatment plan. Treatment dose can be delivered in either 1 fraction or divided into many fractions. Thus step includes operating the ionizing radiation source to deliver the therapeutic radiation dose to the treatment portion of the sympathetic nerve.

In step the subject is released. For example following treatment delivery the patient is allowed to go home.

In step it is determined whether treatment is complete. If so the process ends. Otherwise the process passes back to step to re position the subject on the subject support system. For example it is determined during step whether the last treatment dose fraction has been delivered. In some embodiments if the patient is on long term follow up it is determined whether there is insufficient reduction in blood pressure. If not the steps described above are repeated in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the process of is used to target a sympathetic nerve. is a block diagram that illustrates the sympathetic nervous system . The sympathetic nervous system is engaged in a fight or flight response of an organism and runs parallel to the spinal cord to which it is connected at various junctions. The nerves of the sympathetic nervous system connect to various organs represented in the diagram by ovals including eyes lacrimal and salivary glands vessels of the head heart lungs stomach liver pancreas kidneys intestines rectum bladder and genitalia . is an image that illustrates an example CT cross section of a human showing a target volume overlapping a treatment portion of a renal sympathetic nerve according to an embodiment. The location of a kidney and spinal cord are indicated. is a diagram that illustrates items evident in the image of according to an embodiment including the kidney renal nerve plexus renal artery spinal cord and target volume . is a diagram that illustrates a target volume overlapping a treatment portion of a thoracic sympathetic nerve according to an embodiment. A rib the aorta thoracic sympathetic chain and individual sympathetic nerves re depicted as is an example target volume .

The process of can be used to target a sympathetic nerve using existing equipment and procedures. However in some embodiments some of the steps of process are accelerated or omitted when targeting a portion of a sympathetic nerve as shown in . is a flowchart that illustrates an example process for radioablation of a sympathetic nerve using the system of according to one embodiment. These efficiencies are achieved by changes in software capability and practice. For example in the illustrated embodiment depicted in steps analogous to steps and are omitted and steps analogous to steps and are accelerated. Because the target the prescription and the retroperitoneal anatomy are very consistent amongst different patients a template is used to quickly apply a best fit pre existing treatment plan to this patient and then optimized in real time e.g. using existing treatment solution software.

In step a subject is positioned in supine orientation in view of the LINAC or other source of ionizing radiation and volume imaging system as described above for step but no tattooing is necessary because of the accelerated process and thus no step analogous to step is included. In various embodiments the ionizing radiation beam is derived from a variety of different sources including S band X band and UNATRON linear accelerators from VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS of Palo Alto Calif. or radioactive sources like Cobalt 60 alone or in any combination.

In step the volume imaging system such as the EPID CT imager is operated to perform a respiration gated CT scan as described above for step . For example the patient is scanned through the kidneys for renal sympathectomy and through the thorax for thoracic sympathectomy. The controller controls the operation of the CT imaging system or and collects computes and stores the measured and derived images. Because the next steps are essentially automatic they are performed rapidly so the subject stays in place and no step analogous to step is included.

In step an accelerated process is used to determine a standard target size shape location and respiration related target motion based at least in part on the scans from the volume imager. In some embodiments the determination is made with little human input. For example the respiratory cycle with the least target motion is predetermined. Auto contouring software is used to delineate normal structures. Such auto contouring software is well known in the art. See for example MimVista from MIM SOFTWARE INC. of Cleveland Ohio. The target e.g. a portion of the renal artery for renal sympathetic denervation or a portion of the thoracic sympathetic ganglion for thoracic sympathectomy is identified by the physician by a simple input operation such as a point and click using a mouse or touch screen on single image showing a cross section of the sympathetic nerve.

Any method may be used to receive predetermined data. For example in various embodiments the data is included as a default value in software instructions is received as manual input from a network administrator on the local or a remote node is retrieved from a local file or database or is sent from a different node on a network either in response to a query or unsolicited or the data is received using some combination of these methods.

A predefined prescription of dose to the target is provided which is optionally presented to and adjusted slightly by the human analyst. Predetermined acceptable tolerance doses for surrounding critical structures are provided which are optionally presented to and adjusted slightly by the human analyst. A predetermined coplanar or non coplanar treatment option is provided which is optionally presented to and adjusted by the human analyst. The predetermined plan also indicates whether the dose is delivered in one or more dose fractions which is optionally presented to and adjusted by the human analyst. These determinations are made at the controller .

In step a predetermined treatment plan template is modified slightly. For example treatment planning software is used with an initial plan for operating the system for a typical renal or thoracic sympathetic nerve denervation e.g. targeting a one centimeter long section of the renal sympathetic nerve adjacent to the kidneys. The treatment planning software is executed until the differences from the desired treatment are within acceptable tolerances which should take a few iterations that can be executed on the order of about one minute. Thus unlike steps and steps and are expected to take only a few minutes and no step analogous to step is included. Thus in this embodiment both collecting the volume image data and operating the ionizing radiation source to deliver the therapeutic radiation dose are performed before removing or re positioning the subject.

In step the volume imaging system is operated to confirm the position of the subject and target as described above for step . For example the 3D anatomy matching by cone beam CT CBCT is performed with the patient on the treatment table in the treatment position to determine if the currently produced image sufficiently matches the stored images taken in step . In some embodiments step is omitted. In some embodiments step is skipped unless and until step is performed as described below.

In step as in step the LINAC or other source of ionizing radiation is operated according to the treatment plan to deliver the treatment dose fraction to the target. The controller operates the LINAC or other source of ionizing radiation based on the treatment plan. Treatment dose can be delivered in either 1 fraction or divided into many fractions.

In step as in step the subject is released. For example following treatment delivery the patient is allowed to go home.

In step as in step it is determined whether treatment is complete. If so the process ends. Otherwise in step the subject is re positioned in supine orientation. For example the patient returns for delivery of treatment and is set up in same position as initial scan. This is confirmed in step described above.

Due to the unique clinical features of these kinds of treatments in some embodiments the modified LINAC that is cheaper to manufacture install and maintain is used as LINAC in system with the improved and faster workflow of process depicted in .

In step a subject is positioned in seated orientation on chair support in view of the LINAC and volume imaging system of system . In some embodiments step includes forming a patient specific molded cushion and placing that cushion on the chair support before positioning the patient on the cushion and chair support .

In step as in step the volume imaging system such as the EPID CT imager is operated to perform a respiration gated CT scan as described above for step .

In step as in step an accelerated process is used to determine a standard target size shape location and respiration related target motion based at least in part on the scans from the volume imager and statistical or historical or normative conditions. In some embodiments the determination is made with little human input.

In step as in step a predetermined treatment plan template is modified slightly. For example treatment planning software is used with an initial plan for operating the system for a typical renal or thoracic sympathetic nerve denervation e.g. targeting a one centimeter long section of the renal sympathetic nerve adjacent to the kidneys. The treatment planning software is executed until the differences from the desired treatment are within acceptable tolerances which should take a few iterations that can be executed on the order of about one minute. Thus unlike steps and steps and are expected to take only a few minutes. and no step analogous to step is included.

In step as in step the volume imaging system is operated to confirm the position of the subject and target. For example the 3D anatomy matching by cone beam CT CBCT is performed with the patient seated on the chair support in the seated treatment position to determine if the currently produced image sufficiently matches the stored images taken in step . In some embodiments step is omitted. In some embodiments step is skipped unless and until step is performed as described below.

In step the LINAC is operated according to the treatment plan to deliver the treatment dose fraction to the target. The controller operates the LINAC based on the treatment plan. Treatment dose can be delivered in either 1 fraction or divided into many fractions. In these embodiments of the treatment plan the movement of the LINAC comprises at least a partial synchronized rotation and revolution in a horizontal plane as the gantry revolves in a horizontal plane. If the treatment is non coplanar then the movement further comprises at least a partial synchronized rotation and revolution in a plane at a small angle to the horizontal plane or a tilt or translation of the chair support . For example for non co planar treatments in some embodiments the ring housing the primary energy source is configured to pivot. In some embodiments the chair support immobilizing the patient is configured to pivot at gimbal . In some embodiments the LINAC beam rotates and is displaced in one plane e.g. the vertical plane. In some embodiments the translating support or LINAC is translated or tilted with respect to the first plane after one rotation and displacement.

In step as in step the subject is released. For example following treatment delivery the patient is allowed to return home.

In step as in step it is determined whether treatment is complete. If so the process ends. Otherwise in step the subject is re positioned in seated orientation on any custom cushion molded for the patient. For example the patient returns for delivery of treatment and is set up in the same position as in the initial scan. This is confirmed in step described above.

Applicants have discovered that resistant hypertension whether refractory to the best achievable oral therapy due to non adherence or established disease resistance can each be treated by selective radioablation of renal sympathetic nerves. This is the case for both hypertension that is otherwise without symptoms and hypertension in the context of and contributing to debilitating conditions like kidney failure and congestive heart disease. In addition to hypertension certain types of cardiac arrhythmia can also be treated by selective radioablation of the thoracic sympathetic chain including patients with dilated cardiomyopathy related multifocal ventricular tachycardia Long QT Syndrome and catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia CPVT . The new methods produce local and systemic effects without the systemic side effects of oral medications. High doses of focused radiation can be delivered to sites of sympathetic nerve dysfunction by an external beam method.

Radiotherapy has traditionally been reserved for oncology patients given the general wariness of radiation oncologists and other medical practitioners towards long term side effects of radiation exposure including increased risk of secondary malignancies. Indeed early in the history of the specialty radiotherapy was used to treat acne in teenagers which led to very regrettable long term carcinogenic effects. Since that time improvements in technology has permitted the application of large doses of radiation to millimeter volumes with sub millimeter precision. Despite this advancement radiotherapy is employed in the benign setting mostly in the context of 1 very small targets such as the trigeminal nerve for treatment of intractable facial pain and 2 patients with limited life expectancy such as hip replacement geriatric patients for the prevention of heterotrophic ossification. More recently retrospective studies have demonstrated no increase in secondary cancer risk in patients treated with high dose radiation to a small area otherwise known as stereotactic radiosurgery Neurosurg 60 60 2007 

The effectiveness of the methods described herein is exemplified in an embodiment in which the subject is a pig and the target is a portion of the renal sympathetic nerve. Minipigs were subjected to surgical renal artery stenosis to induce systemic hypertension and sympathetic overactivity. Blood pressure was measured using cuff manometry and compared to pretreatment baseline. Computed tomography with intravenous contrast was performed to identify the renal artery and vein and surrounding tissue. is an image that illustrates example CT cross section of a minipig showing a target overlapping a treatment portion of a renal sympathetic nerve according to an embodiment. A kidney spinal cord and target volume are indicated. is a diagram that illustrates items evident in the image of according to an embodiment including the kidney renal nerve plexus renal artery spinal cord and target volume . A treatment plan was generated targeting the renal nerve plexus surrounding the renal artery. Stereotactic radiotherapy to the target volume was performed with peak dose of 120 Gy. Following treatment swine underwent cuff manometry to assess blood pressure response to stereotactic treatment to the renal nerve plexus.

As shown by trace after surgical renal stenosis the blood pressure of the subject rises to a peak value over 160 mm Hg in two weeks 14 days . Then stereotactic radiotherapy to the renal nerve was performed using the method of at time 14 days . After the non invasive radiotherapy the subject s blood pressure steadily dropped over the next two weeks to return to normal at 28 days where it remained for the extent of the experiment. This indicates the effectiveness of the methods presented herein.

Existing methods of blood pressure control for the most part singular or combination oral agents unfortunately fail to achieve targets of blood pressure reduction in the majority of treated patients. This can be due to both patient non adherence to lifelong pharmacotherapy for a silent condition and genuine disease resistance. In an especially vulnerable patient population for example dialysis patients adequate control of blood pressure reduces mortality risk by 50 . Congestive heart failure a condition affecting 5.3 million people has a similar development of resistance over time to medication management due to up regulation of renal and sympathetic nerve activity. Blood pressure control in this context similarly reduces mortality. Inherited or acquired malignant ventricular arrhythmias are by definition life threatening and in selected patients sympathetic nervous system activation leads to life threatening arrhythmias. In these patients selective thoracic sympathetic nerve radioablation may significantly prolong and improve life.

For this new indication of selective sympathetic nerve radioablation some embodiments described here have several advantages over existing systems for stereotactic body radiotherapy including reduced cost for both initial purchase and maintenance. Existing systems for stereotactic body radiotherapy are designed to utilize a variety of beam energies for lesions of different depths utilize multileaf collimators for targets of different sizes and irregular shapes and utilize variable output to shape a uniform dose across an irregularly shaped target. Because the targets of selective sympathetic nerve radioablation including the renal sympathetic nerve and thoracic sympathetic nerve are consistent in their size location depth and shape none of these features are necessary. The LINAC used in some embodiments has fixed energy fixed but interchangeable aperture and fixed output. The unnecessary features are stripped to produce a system that is significantly less costly to own and maintain just as precise and more reliable.

Some embodiments also offer the advantage of improved safety and reduced shielding requirements. Because existent clinical linear accelerator systems are designed to accommodate targets of variable depths they utilize a range of energies typically from 4 MV to 15 MV. As energies increase the shielding requirements increase. At the higher 15 MV energy range there is a significant neutron contamination that requires additional precautions. Even if a system is never used at the 15 MV energy that it is capable of 15 MV output is sufficient to require these additional shielding and precautions. Because both renal sympathetic nerves and thoracic sympathetic nerves are superficial a maximal energy of 6 MV is sufficient. Thus the shielding requirements for this dedicated device and cost of installation are significantly reduced.

Some embodiments also offer the advantage of standardized dosimetry. Existing treatment planning systems are made to accommodate wide ranging requirements of target size shape depth deformation with movement location and avoidance structures. Each patient is traditionally planned anew. In the case of selective sympathetic nerve ablation the target size shape depth and deformation are consistent from patient to patient. Thus an algorithm that presents a pre selected plan can be rapidly fine tuned to the individual patient greatly enhancing both workflow and safety.

Some embodiments also offer the advantage of generalized utilization. In addition to selective sympathetic nerve ablation the LINAC is capable of executing a variety of treatment plans traditionally reserved for full featured clinical linear accelerators. These indications include but are not limited to nerve ablation for trigeminal neuralgia arteriovenous malformations brain lesions metastatic lesions to the brain meningiomas etc boost for head and neck cancer acoustic neuromas chordomas metastatic lesions to the spine early primary lung lesions metastatic lesions to the liver among others. The 3D anatomy matching and respiratory gating capabilities of this device ensures precise delivery of radiation to a wide range of target sites.

At least some steps of the processes described herein for determining treatment plans and operating ionizing radiation sources may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such example hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor performs a set of operations on information. The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver.

The term computer readable medium is used herein to refer to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk a magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a compact disk ROM CD ROM a digital video disk DVD or any other optical medium punch cards paper tape or any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a programmable ROM PROM an erasable PROM EPROM a FLASH EPROM or any other memory chip or cartridge a transmission medium such as a cable or carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. Information read by a computer from computer readable media are variations in physical expression of a measurable phenomenon on the computer readable medium. Computer readable storage medium is a subset of computer readable medium which excludes transmission media that carry transient man made signals.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet . A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display .

In other embodiments the local network or internet comprise any communication network which can include one or more wired and or wireless networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof each comprised of zero or more nodes. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. In various embodiments communication network or portions thereof can support communication using any protocol for example the Internet Protocol IP .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real word signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

