---

title: Electronic medical system touch phrase technology
abstract: Electronic medical system touch phrase technology includes a method comprising initializing a touch phrase button by a processor such that the initializing associates a first text with the touch phrase button; receiving an input associated with the touch phrase button; updating a state of the touch phrase button based upon the input including associating a second text with the touch phrase button; and communicating the state of the touch phrase button to a memory device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08947374&OS=08947374&RS=08947374
owner: HealthFusion, Inc.
number: 08947374
owner_city: Solana Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110207
---
The present disclosure relates generally to the field of computer software applications and systems for medical examining charting and record keeping.

In general the medical profession utilizes computer systems to maintain medical records such as in an electronic medical record for later retrieval and comparison. Such systems are typically historical in nature and require substantial human manipulation to enter medical data for use in making diagnosis based on trends changes and long term indicators as well as possibly for billing purposes.

Electronic systems utilized by medical practitioners at the point of care range from networked laptop computers to thin client workstations. These systems involve user interfaces consisting of text entry boxes and drop down menus. Generally the nature of the user interfaces requires text entry by means of a computer keyboard.

Osteopathic practitioners may utilize electronic medical systems to record information from patient visits but like non osteopathic systems such systems are not easy to use and often interfere in the patient experience.

A representative embodiment relates to electronic medical system touch phrase technology including a method comprising initializing a touch phrase button by a processor such that the initializing associates a first text with the touch phrase button receiving an input associated with the touch phrase button updating a state of the touch phrase button based upon the input including associating a second text with the touch phrase button and communicating the state of the touch phrase button to a memory device.

Another representative embodiment relates to a medical examination charting and recording computer user interface that includes a method comprising displaying a first plurality of buttons at a user interface where the first plurality of buttons is associated with a first level of a data hierarchy displaying a second plurality of buttons and a first plurality of touch phrase buttons in response to an input associated with the first plurality of buttons where the second plurality of buttons and the first plurality of touch phrase buttons are associated with a second level of the data hierarchy receiving an input associated with a selected touch phrase button of the first plurality of touch phrase buttons updating a state of the selected touch phrase button based upon the input and communicating the state of the selected touch phrase button to a memory device where the state of the selected touch phrase button is associated with charting text configured for compilation in a report.

Yet another representative embodiment relates to an osteopathic examination charting and record keeping computer system includes a method comprising receiving subjective data associated with a patient examination where the subject data is configured for compilation in a medical chart displaying a first plurality of buttons and a first plurality of touch phrase buttons at a user interface receiving an objective input associated with a selected touch phrase button of the first plurality of touch phrase buttons updating a state of the touch phrase button in response to the objective input communicating the state of the touch phrase button to a memory device where the state of the selected touch phrase button is associated with charting text configured for compilation in the medical chart receiving assessment data associated with the patient examination where the assessment data is configured for compilation in the medical chart and

receiving plan data associated with the patient examination where the plan data is configured for compilation in the medical chart.

Representative embodiments are described below with reference to the accompanying figures. It should be understood that the following description is intended to describe representative embodiments and should not limit the claims.

The healthcare management system is coupled to a network by which the computer can communicate with various devices . Devices can include a tablet computer a personal data assistant PDA a desktop computer and a notebook computer . Devices can also include but are not limited to cell phones netbooks and other mobile devices. In one embodiment devices include a tablet computer that uses touch screen technology to receive user input and does not rely on keyboards mice or styluses for receiving user input.

The devices receive management data over the network . The management data is retrieved from the database . The management data may be modified by updating deleting or adding management data through devices . The updated data may then be transmitted over the network to the computer . The computer may then update the database accordingly.

The computing system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a liquid crystal display or active matrix display for displaying information to a user. The display may also be integrated into devices . An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys may be coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . In another embodiment the input device includes a touch screen display . The input device can include a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to various embodiments the processes that effectuate representative embodiments that are forthcoming below can be provided by the computing system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement representative embodiments. Thus embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computing system also includes at least one communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link not shown . The communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc.

The at least one communication interface may receive code transmitted from a remote device not shown . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computing system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

An input associated with a first level touch phrase button may be received in an operation . In an operation the state of the touch phrase button is updated. The updating of a state of a touch phrase button is described more fully below. After the touch phrase button s state is updated the user interface returns to waiting for user input in the operation .

Alternatively an input associated with a button from the first level of buttons is received in an operation . In response a second level of buttons and a second level of touch phrase buttons are displayed in an operation . The first level of touch phrase buttons may be hidden based upon the receipt of the input in the operation . After displaying the second level of buttons and touch phrase buttons the user interface waits for user input in an operation .

It should be noted that receiving an input associated with a second level of buttons results in a display of a third level of buttons and a third level of touch phrase buttons. The ability for an input associated with a particular level of button can be repeated to traverse to any level of the data hierarchy. In an operation an input associated with a button that is associated with the nth level of the data hierarchy is received. In response an nth 1 level of touch phrase buttons is displayed in an operation . At this nth 1 level there are no buttons associated with the nth 1 level which indicates that the last node in a particular path in the data hierarchy has been reached. After the nth 1 level of touch phrase buttons has been displayed the user interface waits for user input in an operation . If input is received that is associated with a touch phrase button in an operation the state of the touch phrase button is updated in an operation .

In a representative embodiment only a latest selected level of touch phrase buttons is displayed. Touch phrase buttons associated with a previous level of the data hierarchy are not displayed. In another representative embodiment a subset of the touch phrase buttons associated with previous levels of the data hierarchy is displayed along with the latest selected level of touch phrase buttons. The subset may include all previous levels of touch phrase buttons between the current level and the root level of the data hierarchy.

Each level of the data hierarchy is associated with a group of zero or more touch phrase buttons. Touch phrase buttons are distinct from typical user interface buttons in a number of ways as described below. is a flow diagram depicting operations that may be performed on a group of touch phrase buttons. Additional fewer and different operations may be performed depending on the particular implementation. In an operation the group of touch phrase buttons is initialized. Initialization includes determining a state for each touch phrase button. Initializing a touch phrase button may also include determining the touch phrase buttons features. The features of a touch phrase button may include but are not limited to text color font icon data and text formatting of the touch phrase button. Text of the touch phrase button can be a group of sentences a sentence a phrase or a component of a phrase that can be included in a report. Because the text of touch phrase buttons is used in generating the report the text is configurable. Configurable elements of touch phrase button can include but are not limited to the button s text color font and text formatting. Further the configurable elements can be associated with a particular state of the touch phrase button thereby allowing the features of the touch phrase button to change based upon the state of the touch phrase button.

In an operation the user interface waits for input. In an operation the user interface receives input for a touch phrase button. As a result of the input the touch phrase button s internal state changes. As part of the state change the features of the touch phrase button are determined. Determination of the features may include retrieving the features locally or from a remote computer such as the computer . After the operation the user interface again waits for user input in the operation .

In an operation a save request is received and in an operation the features associated with each touch phrase button may be saved. A touch phrase button s features are saved based upon the touch phrase button s state. Some potential states of a touch phrase button correspond to a no save state. Touch phrase buttons that are in a no save state when a save request is received do not have their features saved. Conversely touch phrase buttons that are not in a no save state i.e. a save state when a save request is received do have their features saved. The touch phrase buttons features may be saved locally or may alternatively be saved to a remote database. For example in one embodiment the touch phrase buttons features may be saved to the database by transmitting the touch phrase buttons features over the network . After the operation the user interface may transition to a new display or may return to the operation . In an alternative implementation the touch phrase data is saved after receiving the touch phrase input in the operation without requiring a save request to be received.

Updating the state of the touch phrase button may include updating various features associated with the touch phrase button. For instance a color associated with the touch phrase button may change depending on the touch phrase button s state. As an example the touch phrase button prior to receiving input may be blue in color. As a result of the input and the state change the touch phrase button may change color to green. In addition updating the state of the touch phrase button may include changing the button s internal state changing the text icon font or text formatting associated. In one embodiment the features associated with a state change is retrieved from the database or the computer . In another embodiment the data associated with the state change is retrieved from the local storage.

Additional data associated with the touch phrase button may be received based upon the state of the touch phrase button. In an operation it is determined if the touch phrase button requires additional data based upon the new state of the touch phrase button. If there is additional data associated with the new state the data is retrieved in an operation . The additional data can be retrieved through the user input device a touch screen or from a remote data source. After the additional data is received the user interface returns to waiting for input . If there is no additional data associated with the new state the user interface returns to waiting for input .

In addition to the configurable elements associated with a touch phrase button each touch phrase button may also be associated with note data. is a flow diagram depicting operations performed for receiving a note data associated with a touch phrase button. Additional fewer or different operations may be performed depending on the particular embodiment. In an operation the touch phrase button is initialized as described above. After initialization a user interface waits for input in an operation . In an operation the user interface receives a note request associated with the touch phrase button. The note data is received in operation . After the note data is received the user interface returns to waiting for input in an operation . In one embodiment the ability for a touch phrase button to receive note data is dependent upon the touch phrase button s state. For instance in a default state a touch phrase button may not allow note data associated with the touch phrase button to be received. After a transition to a non default state the touch phrase button may allow note data to be received. In another embodiment note data associated with the touch phrase button is allowed to be received regardless of the touch phrase button s state. In yet another embodiment the touch phrase button may not allow note data to be received in any state.

As noted above touch phrase button input and data are used to generate a report. Specifically the features and the note data associated with each touch phrase button are used to generate the report. is a flow diagram depicting operations performed in generating the report. Additional fewer or different operations may be performed depending on the particular embodiment. In an operation input and data for one or more touch phrase buttons is received as described with reference to . In an operation a generate report request is received. In an operation each touch phrase button in an application is examined. Features and note data for each touch phrase button in a save state are retrieved. In one embodiment the report includes text of all of the touch phrase buttons that were saved in a save state. Additionally the note data associated with the touch phrase buttons are included in the report. In an alternative embodiment the examination record includes the text of a subset of touch phrase buttons that were previously saved. For example the report may contain only the text of touch phrase buttons in a particular level of the data hierarchy.

In an alternative embodiment the report is updated as each touch phrase button is saved. In this alternative embodiment the report is updated in a piecemeal fashion as touch phrase button input and data are saved. The generation step in this embodiment therefore causes the report to be displayed or printed but does not generate the report.

A patient s information can be retrieved by activating a button associated with the patient button. Buttons in the patient management application can be activated based upon the input device as described with reference to . For example a button may be activated based upon input received from a touch screen. After activating the button the medical professional can review patient data relating to the patient. The patient data can include but is not limited to the patient s past medical history social history immunization history allergies prescribed medications and family history. Activating the button also allows the medical professional to enter patient data associated with a patient examination. As a result of the entering of the patient data the patient s electronic health record is updated accordingly. The representative electronic health record application is configured for the collection of the patient data based upon the patient examination conducted according to a subjective objective assessment and plan SOAP convention.

The patient examination may also provide an opportunity for the medical professional to collect data regarding the patient s history. The data regarding the patient s history may include but is not limited to the patient s immunization history known allergies surgical history previous prescriptions social history family history and medical history. A representative screen display for collecting the patient s medical history is illustrated in . To enter conditions that are not present in the patient s medical history button is activated. The medical professional can then activate any of the conditions from the common conditions group of buttons . The buttons that are in the common conditions group of buttons are displayed based upon the activation of the common conditions button . This group of buttons may also be displayed when the patient s medical history screen display is first displayed without requiring activation of button . Condition buttons that are associated with the common conditions group of buttons are configurable. For example the common conditions group of buttons may include a breast cancer condition button for a female patient. For a male patient however the common conditions group of buttons may replace the breast cancer condition button with a testicular cancer condition button for example. In addition the medical professional could add common condition buttons for all patients based upon the medical professional s practice. Medical professionals are not limited to selecting only those conditions from the common conditions group of buttons . The medical professional may also search for other conditions using the search box . The other conditions button also provides the medical professional with other condition buttons. When activated the other conditions button displays another group of condition buttons not shown that the medical professional can choose from.

The medical professional can also select conditions that are present in the patient s medical history. This is done by activating the button . Any condition that has been previously selected as not being present in the patient s medical history has its corresponding condition button deactivated. In a deactivated state a condition button does not allow the medical professional to activate the condition button. This ensures that a condition is not selected as both present and not present in the patient s medical history. For example a diabetes button was previously selected as not being present in the patient s medical history. When button is activated the diabetes button is deactivated as shown with hatching of the diabetes button . The diabetes button would be reactivated if button is activated. After activating the button the medical professional can then select conditions in a similar way as described above. At any point during inputting the patient s medical history the medical profession can enter any additional notes in a text area .

After the subjective portion of the patient examination is complete the medical professional can start the objective portion of the patient examination. In the objective portion of the patient examination various physical examination findings are detected and recorded. provides a representative screen display for collecting the patient s vital signs. As an illustrative example of collecting vital sign data the medical professional can record a patient s blood pressure. Using buttons and the medical professional selects the patient s artery body side position and cuff size used to collect the patient s blood pressure. Activating one of the buttons and allows the medical professional to change text associated with the button. For example activating the button allows the medical professional to choose the left or right side of the patient used to collect a blood pressure reading. Different options can be presented to the medical professional using a drop down list or a separate dialog window. Alternatively activating the button may change the button to a next text value. For example when current text for button is Left upon activation the text corresponding to button changes to Right. A blood pressure reading can be input in a user interface element . The user interface element can be but is not limited to a text field a separate dialog or a drop down list.

After entering the blood pressure reading a flag is displayed. The flag allows additional information to be presented based upon a recorded vital sign. In this current example the patient s blood pressure was entered as 120 80 in the user interface element which is in a normal range. The flag therefore provides an indication that the data was in a normal range. The flag can provide this indication based upon the flag s text and color. In addition the flag s various options are configurable. For example flag could have indications including but not limited to a slight danger a moderate danger and a great danger indication that is based upon various blood pressure levels. Each vital sign has a corresponding flag and that flag has a group of indications that correspond to various levels of the vital sign.

After entering all the requisite vital signs a vital sign overview screen display as illustrated in can be displayed. This screen display provides the medical professional with an overview of the patient s recorded vital signs. Vital signs recorded during a previous examination can also be displayed on this screen. An indication may appear next to each vital sign. For example the indication is shown to the right of patient s temperature . Each indication is configurable based upon a vital sign s value. An indication can also be configured not to be displayed based upon a vital sign s value.

After the requisite vital signs are collected the electronic health record application allows the medical professional to enter patient data related to a physical examination portion of the patient examination. illustrate representative screen displays of an interface for entering the patient data associated with the physical examination. The interface is a representative embodiment of navigating a hierarchy of data as discussed with reference to .

The text summary includes a text summary based upon the touch phrase buttons in the second level group of touch phrase buttons . In the text summary is a concatenation of the text of all touch phrase buttons from the second level group of touch phrase buttons that are in a particular state. The text summary may also be a concatenation of the text of all touch phrase buttons that are not in a particular state. In addition the text summary may be truncated or otherwise edited to shorten the length of the text summary .

Each touch phrase button has a note icon associated with the touch phrase button. The note icon is used to enter free form data associated with a touch phrase button. The note data may be associated with a touch phrase button regardless of the touch phrase button s state. In an alternative implementation the note data is associated with a particular state of the touch phrase button. In this alternative implementation separate note data can be associated with each state of a particular touch phrase button.

Screen display illustrates that the osteopathic level in the data hierarchy is the last navigable level as illustrated by a lack of buttons associated with the osteopathic button. The lack of buttons associated with the osteopathic button restricts the navigation to any level below the osteopathic level.

As demonstrated the user interface allows navigation through various levels of the data hierarchy. illustrate a single example of navigation through the data hierarchy and are not meant to be limiting. The user interface may be used to navigate levels of a hierarchy that are shallower or deeper than the levels illustrated in the figures.

Touch phrase buttons comprising the fourth group of touch phrase buttons may have data associated with one or more of the touch phrase buttons. A representative example of associating data with a touch phrase button is illustrated in and is a representative embodiment of the touch phrase button having additional data associated with the touch phrase button as described with reference to . After activating the touch phrase button into a state that requires additional data the representative screen display is displayed. The screen display is used for entering data associated with the touch phrase button . The screen display is configurable and may differ based upon an associated touch phrase button and the associated touch phrase button s state. Elements of the display that are configurable include texts and . The texts and not only provide context for groups of buttons and but may also be used in generating a report. The texts and can be configured based upon the preferences of the medical professional.

After finalizing data input on screen display the electronic health record application may display representative screen display . Screen display is the screen display updated to reflect the changes entered as described with reference to . Based upon the state of touch phrase button and the additional data associated with touch phrase button various elements of the screen display are updated. For instance the buttons and have had their appearances changed as indicated by the buttons and appearing with cross hatching. The appearance of the buttons and may change their background color font color or other visual element based upon the state of the touch phrase button and the additional data associated with touch phrase button . The appearance of touch phrase button has also changed based upon the touch phrase button s state and the additional data associated with touch phrase button . In addition to the appearance of the buttons and changing the text associated with the fourth level group of touch phrase buttons is also updated accordingly.

After the medical professional enters all of the patient s relative information associated with the data hierarchy a physical examination summary regarding the physical examination can be generated. is a representative screen display of a physical examination summary. Generating the physical examination summary is a representative embodiment of generating a report as described with reference to . The physical examination summary is automatically generated based upon the physical examination data entered previously by the medical professional as described with reference to . For instance the text is based upon the data input as described with respect to . Generating the physical examination summary saves the medical professional from having to write up the examination summary while examining the patient. One advantage of this automatic generation of the examination summary is that the medical professional can spend more time focusing on the patient instead of writing the patient s data manually in a file during the physical examination.

After the medical professional reviews the physical examination summary the patient examination transitions to the assessment phase. illustrates a representative diagnosis screen display . A diagnosis is entered into by activating a button from a first group of buttons . In this example osteopathic button is activated. In response to the osteopathic button being activated a second group of buttons is displayed. In this representative example an osteopathic cervical button is activated. After the osteopathic cervical button is activated a row corresponding to this diagnosis is created. The diagnosis can be added to a patient s problem list by activating button . Once the diagnosis has been added to the problem list it can be removed by activating button again. The diagnosis may also be added to the patient s problem list automatically when the row corresponding to the diagnosis is created. Diagnostic rows can be deleted by activating a radio button associated with a diagnostic row and then activating the delete button .

After the medical professional completes entering relevant diagnostic codes the patient examination moves into a final planning portion. Coding each procedure performed during the patient examination is shown in a representative procedure coding screen display of . Row illustrates a procedure coding of an office visit of the patient. In this example the patient is an established patient. An add to bill button can be activated to add a procedure to the patient s bill. The row was generated by the activation of an evaluation and management button that is located in a first group of buttons . After the activation of button a second group of buttons is displayed. Row is generated as a result of the activation of an established patient button .

The electronic health record application can be integrated with the claims management application to generate a claim associated with entered diagnostic and procedure codes. The diagnostic and procedure codes and other data can be transmitted to the claims management applications via the healthcare management framework when a generate patient management system billing button is activated.

Once relevant procedure codes have been entered the medical professional may then prescribe medication to the patient. is a representative medication search screen display . In response to activating an antimicrobials button a group of buttons is displayed. The group of buttons corresponds to common prescriptions of antimicrobials prescribed by the medical professional. The group of buttons is configurable based upon the medical professional s preferences. The activation of a button from the group of buttons updates the patient s electronic chart with the selected prescription. is a representative screen display displayed in response to an Amoxil 250 mg cap button being activated. The screen display allows the medical professional to activate one or more signatures from a group of previously saved signatures . In addition the medical professional can save a prescription as a favorite by activating button . A favorite prescription may then be displayed in the group of buttons .

Once information regarding a prescription is entered the medical professional may then select a pharmacy to fulfill the prescription. provides a representative pharmacy selection screen display . The electronic health record application allows the medical professional to search known pharmacies. Pharmacies can be searched based upon a number of criteria including but not limited to name city state and zip code. The medical professional enters the appropriate criteria in a name text box a city text box a state drop down list and a zip code text box . A pharmacy search is initiated by the activation of a search button . The pharmacy search returns a list of pharmacies . From this list a pharmacy can be selected. Once a pharmacy is selected prescription data can then be sent to the pharmacy to initiate an e prescription process by the activation of a e prescribe button .

Another illustrated feature of the electronic health record application is the ability to schedule follow up appointments or appointment reminders. is a representative follow up screen display . A follow up can be scheduled by the activation of a follow up button . The date of the follow up is then selected based upon the activation of the when button and the period button . Alternatively a specific date could be entered in the text box . The specific date could also be entered using a calendar selection tool. After a save button is activated the follow up appointment can then automatically be scheduled by the electronic health record application. Saving of the follow up appointment may be through integration with the patient management application. An appointment reminder can also be created using the display elements illustrated in the screen display . An appointment reminder button would be activated instead of the follow up button . Selecting a date for the appointment reminder would be accomplished in a similar manner as selecting a date for the follow up appointment.

The electronic health record application also allows the medical professional quickly to construct a care plan for the patient. is a representative care plan screen display . The medical professional can search for care plan instructions to provide to the patient based upon the examination. Activating a pharyngitis button displays instructions that can be provided to the patient. The notes can be edited with activation of an edit button or deleted from the patient s record with activation of a delete button .

The medical professional can also record and provide the patient with an osteopathic plan. is a representative osteopathic plan screen display . A group of touch phrase buttons lists possible plan items. As described with respect to a touch phrase button can be associated with additional data. In the illustrative example activating touch phrase button causes additional data to be collected. is a representative osteopathic data entry screen display . A group of buttons corresponding to various types of treatment techniques is displayed. Activation of one of these buttons updates a text value . In the representative example a treatment consisted of a high velocity low amplitude treatment technique. Accordingly when button is activated the text value is updated. Text corresponds to the result of the treatment. A second group of buttons provides the possible results of the treatment. In the representative screen display an improved button has been selected and the text has been updated accordingly. A text is also generated based upon both the text and . Both the group of buttons and the second group of buttons are configurable. For instance additional result buttons could be added to the second group of buttons or different results buttons could be displayed depending upon which button from the group of buttons is activated.

Throughout the patient examination patient data may be input using custom forms. Custom forms include one or more configurable questions. A configurable question may also be in the form of a statement. Questions may be added deleted or edited to further increase the efficiency of patient examination data collection and health record management. Each question has a text portion an answer portion and a notes portion. The text portion includes the text of the question. The answer portion includes at least one answer type and may include multiple answer types. Each answer type controls how the answer to a question is received. For instance an answer type may be but is not limited to a yes no answer type which accepts either a yes or no answer. Finally the notes portion is used to collect any notes associated with the question.

New tabs may be added through activating an Add a New Tab button . is a representative screen display of an interface for adding a new tab screen. A drop down list associates a page with the new tab. A page may be selected through other means such as but not limited to radio buttons check boxes text boxes or selectable items from a list. A text box allows the tab to be given a name. Creation of the tab occurs after the save button is activated. is a representative screen display showing the successful creation of a custom tab. A message is displayed indicating that the tab was created. A row indicates the new tab is added to the associated page. As shown in screen a page may be associated with multiple tabs. Pages may also have no associated tabs. In this scenario the page is not shown in the administration section for custom tabs .

When a tab is activated any form associated with the tab is displayed. Multiple forms may be displayed if multiple forms are associated with a particular tab. For instance the Daily Routine tab is associated with multiple forms. Forms can be edited or deleted through the use of buttons. As an example the Ekg form may be edited with the activation of button or deleted by the activation of button . New forms may be added by activating the Add a New Form button .

Questions may also be associated with an optional second answer type. A drop down list may be used to select the second answer type. Possible second answer types include all available types for the first answer type as well as the option to indicate that there is no second answer type. A second answer type of toggle through is shown as selected in the drop down list . For a toggle through answer type two or more possible options may be input into a text box . The first option listed may be used as the default option that is initially selected. Alternatively any other value may be chosen as the default value for the toggle through answer type. Optionally a toggle through option may include a label which may be entered in a text box . A check box may be used to indicate if the label is to be displayed.

A form may be associated with numerous questions. A radio button may be used to select the question. The selected question may now be edited deleted or its position in the form changed. A move up button may be used to move the question up one position in the form. Similarly a move down button may be used to move the question down one position in the form. An edit button may be used to change the text of the question the first answer type the second answer type or the label of the second answer. Additionally a delete button may be used to remove the question from the form.

The screen display is an example of a complete custom form with multiple questions for collecting patient data related to a sore throat. In addition to an answer each question also has a corresponding notes field for associating text with the question. As described above a question may allow multiple answers. A second answer may be enabled based upon a first answer. For instance a question has a yes no first answer type and a toggle through second answer type. If a no button is selected there is no need to collect a patient s temperature. Accordingly the toggle through button may be disabled. The toggle through button would be enabled when a yes button is selected to indicate that the patient has a fever. Once all of the patient data is collected the custom form and the collected answers and notes may be saved to a storage device. The custom form and the collected answers may also be integrated into the patient s electronic chart. Additional questions answer types or answers may be added or edited to further customize the custom form based upon continual experience of the medical professional. Seldom used questions may also be deleted. Customized forms allow a medical professional to record patient data quickly and accurately while allowing the medical professional to spend more time focusing on the patient.

Once all relative data relating to the patient examination is entered in the electronic health record application an examination summary can be generated. B C and D are representative screen displays of an examination summary. The examination summary includes various portions which displays patient data from the examination. In addition the examination summary may include data from the patient management application and the claims management system. One portion of the examination summary is a medical history portion that displays data that was collected as described with reference to . The vital sign data that was collected as described with reference to is displayed in a vital signs portion . The examination summary can also incorporate various outputs from the examination module in whole. For example the physical examination summary as described with reference to is integrated into a portion of the examination summary. The physical examination summary includes text which is generated based upon touch phrase button and the additional data associated with the touch phrase button . The examination summary also contains portions relating to coding data as described with reference to prescription data as described with reference to osteopathic data as described with reference to follow up data as described with reference to and care plan data as described with reference to .

The examination summary is not limited to summarizing data collected during the patient s examination. For instance a problem list lists problems that were entered in the examination as described with reference to . The problem list also includes problems that were recorded as part of an earlier examination. Earlier examination data may be retrieved from the patient management application or the computer or the database of the health management system. The examination summary can be incorporated into a patient s electronic health record. Integrating the examination summary into the patient s electronic health record allows the medical professional to update the electronic health record without having to re input the data collected during the examination.

It should be appreciated of course that the details associated with the product described herein merely represent one possible implementation. Representative embodiments are described herein with reference to drawings. These drawings illustrate certain details of specific embodiments that implement the systems and methods and programs of the representative embodiments. However describing the representative embodiments with drawings should not be construed as imposing on the claims any limitations that may be present in the drawings. The representative embodiments contemplate methods systems and program products on any machine readable media for accomplishing its operations. The representative embodiments may be implemented using an existing computer processor or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired system.

Embodiments may include program products comprising machine readable media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can include RAM ROM EPROM EPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired and wireless to a machine the machine properly views the connection as a machine readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed machine readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Embodiments are described in the general context of method operations which may be implemented in one embodiment by a program product including machine executable instructions such as program code for example in the form of program modules executed by machines in networked environments. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Machine executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of the methods described herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents an example of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such operations.

Embodiments may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and may use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired and wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

It should be noted that although the flow charts provided herein show a specific order of method operations it is understood that the order of these operations may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more operations may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. Likewise software and web implementations of the representative embodiments could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and logic to accomplish the various database searching steps correlation steps comparison steps and decision steps. It should also be noted that the word component as used herein and in the claims is intended to encompass implementations using one or more lines of software code and or hardware implementations and or equipment for receiving manual inputs.

The foregoing description of representative embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present claims to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the representative embodiments. The representative embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present claims and their practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present claims in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

