---

title: Hibernate mode for chat service
abstract: Methods, apparatuses and systems directed to hibernating a client of an instant messaging service. A user wishing to conserve battery life and connection overhead in a mobile device may transmit a hibernate command to a chat server. Although the user's connection is torn down, the user will still maintain a presence on the instant messaging service and be able to receive messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09277502&OS=09277502&RS=09277502
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09277502
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110202
---
The present disclosure relates generally to instant messaging on mobile devices and in particular establishing a hibernate mode so that a mobile device can power down but still maintain a presence on the instant messaging system to receive instant messages.

Instant messaging on mobile devices is nearly ubiquitous. Users often install multiple clients such as AOL instant messenger Yahoo messenger Google gchat MSN messenger Kik messenger BlackBerry messenger etc. on their mobile devices to remain in constant connection with their friends family and co workers. However maintaining the data connection from a mobile device to an instant messaging server requires a constant data connection which is expensive both from a traffic and battery life standpoint. Therefore users may wish to power down their device to save battery life while still maintaining a presence on the IM server so that they may continue to receive messages.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

Particular embodiments relate to an instant messaging service that provides users with the ability to set a hibernate mode wherein the user powers down his or her mobile device or at a very minimum tears down the battery draining connection to the instant messaging IM server while still maintaining an available presence to the IM system and receiving messaging through an alternate protocol such a push notification. The method allows a mobile device to select between message delivery optimized for high traffic and message delivery optimized for low traffic based on user activity.

Implementations of the present invention extend these concepts by allowing the IM server to store messages to be delivered to the user when he or she exits hibernate mode or to deliver the instant messages to the user through the form of a push notification or short message system SMS message. In particular embodiments the first message received destined for the user after the user enters hibernate mode is encoded with a token that serves as a pointer to the message history. After the user exits hibernate mode the message server retrieves all messages received after the message identified in the token and delivers the consolidated message stream to a user.

IM client with identifier connects to IM server using a standard personal computer PC through public internet protocol IP network establishing a transmission control protocol TCP session although XMPP is the preferred protocol for exchanging instant messages the transport protocol in one implementation is still TCP with the IM server . Other logical or transport layer connection protocols can also be used. This connection is shown by line it is understood that line should be shown through public IP network but for the sake of clarity it is drawn outside of public IP network . IM server updates an entry in its presence information data structure residing in channel server showing a in the data structure to identify that client is available to receive instant messages.

Mobile client identified by the label connects using wireless mobile device . Mobile device connects to IM server through a physical wireless medium to a cellular tower connected to a wireless service provider s data network then through the public IP network. Much like client mobile client establishes a TCP session with the IM server . The IM server records the client s presence information in the channel server indicated by the entry in the presence information data structure .

Unlike client mobile client is battery powered and must maintain TCP session through a wireless radio frequency rf medium. This makes keeping the TCP connection open an expensive affair as the mobile device must constantly send or respond to keepalive messages from the IM server . Furthermore mobile device may roam across multiple cellular areas. Wireless service provider data network must keep track of the mobility of mobile device and facilitate handoffs to various cellular towers and possibly various service nodes not shown . It is possible that given enough movement wireless service provider data network will be unable to continue routing packets to or from mobile device and the TCP connection will be torn down. This results in client s presence on the IM server to appear and disappear synchronously with the TCP connection.

More importantly every time mobile device reestablishes a data connection it will renegotiate a new TCP session with IM server . TCP session initialization and maintenance is expensive from both a bandwidth and battery consumption perspective. Thus it is desirable to allow mobile devices to hibernate while maintaining a presence on IM server to receive messages and only re initiate a TCP connection when the user is ready to begin using the IM service.

At step Jabber server receives the hibernate request and at step Jabber server adds identifier information such as a session identifier SID or other information to identify the particular mobile client session. In particular embodiments mobile device may have multiple chat clients connected to Jabber server and wishes to hibernate one or all of its clients. Thus Jabber server may append SIDs client IDs or some device ID linked to all clients associated with a particular device. Jabber server then forwards the hibernate request to channel server . In particular embodiments the hibernate request may bypass the Jabber server and mobile device may send hibernate request to channel server directly. In particular embodiments mobile device may append SIDs or other identifiers to the hibernate request.

At Step channel server records the client as hibernated but does not alter the presence information displayed to other users. In particular embodiments channel server may modify client s presence to indicate hibernating or idle to other users. Channel server maintains the session associated with the SID in the request alive. In particular embodiments channel server maintains the connection with Jabber server alive as well.

In step after channel server marks client down as hibernated channel server sends an acknowledgement to mobile device . In particular embodiments Jabber server sends the acknowledgement ACK .

In step mobile device awaits acknowledgement. In particular embodiments if mobile device waits longer than a predetermined time period without receiving an ACK it retransmits the hibernate request.

In step after receiving the ACK mobile device disconnects and Jabber server tears down the TCP connection. In particular embodiments channel server keeps the connection between Jabber server and channel server for client alive. In particular embodiments mobile device maintains the hibernate mode through pinging web tier every 60 minutes. So long as mobile device has power and a data connection once every 60 minutes the hibernate mode will be maintained in perpetuity. However if the predetermined timeout period is exceeded for example if 70 minutes elapse without a ping from mobile device the hibernate mode is dropped and user s presence removed from the channel server.

The token generated by Jabber server acts as a pointer to the received message. Client may receive multiple messages after the first received message after hibernating. The token identifies the first message in a stream of message a user received after hibernating his or her device. In particular embodiments a token is generated for every message received after client hibernates. In particular embodiments a token is generated only for the first message received after client hibernates.

In step Jabber server transmits a push notification to mobile device . Push notifications may be generated by interacting with an application program interface API for the operating system of mobile device such as through the Google Android push notification API. In particular embodiments push notifications use short message service SMS channels so that users may receive push notifications even when not receiving a data connection. In other embodiments push notifications may use Microsoft MS direct push through use of a TCP tunnel. In particular embodiments the push notification is generated by an application utilizing the Java Mobile Push API. This disclosure contemplates multiple types and mechanisms of push notification that may be envisioned by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In particular embodiments part or all of the message is included in the push notification along with the token. In other embodiments only the sender s chat handle is included in the push notification. In particular embodiments every single message received after client hibernates is pushed to mobile device . In particular embodiments only the first message received after client hibernates is pushed to mobile device .

At step the mobile device receives the push notification. At step user of mobile device is prompted with a choice as to whether to reconnect to the service. If the user of mobile device chooses not to reconnect to the IM service in step client remains in hibernation mode. If the user of mobile device chooses to reconnect to the IM service in step mobile device re establishes a TCP connection to Jabber server and transmits the received token back to the Jabber server.

If at step Jabber server receives a token the process flows to step . At step Jabber server accesses a store of messages addressed to client and retrieves the message associated with the token along with all subsequently received messages. At step Jabber server delivers these messages to mobile device over its TCP connection .

After the messages are delivered at step Jabber server communicates with channel server to de assert the hibernate marker for client and client is treated like any other active client.

While the foregoing embodiments may be implemented in a variety of network configurations the following illustrates an example network environment for didactic and not limiting purposes. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. Network environment also includes one or more data storage linked to one or more servers . Particular embodiments may be implemented in network environment . For example social networking system frontend may be written in software programs hosted by one or more servers . For example event database may be stored in one or more storage . In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple a server or a client to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiment each data storage may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functions implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients .

A client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a server and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server . Server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client may render a web page based on the HTML files from server for presentation to the user. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable web page files. As an example and not by way of limitation web pages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a web page encompasses one or more corresponding web page files which a browser may use to render the web page and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation look aside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

The client side functionality described above can be implemented as a series of instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium that when executed cause a programmable processor to implement the operations described above. While the client device may be implemented in a variety of different hardware and computing systems shows a schematic representation of the main components of an example computing platform according to various particular embodiments. Multipoint sensing devices generally include a controller which may comprise a microcontroller or one or more processors configured to execute instructions and to carry out operations associated with a computing platform. In various embodiments controller may be implemented as a single chip multiple chips and or other electrical components including one or more integrated circuits and printed circuit boards. Controller may optionally contain a cache memory unit for temporary local storage of instructions data or computer addresses. By way of example using instructions retrieved from memory controller may control the reception and manipulation of input and output data between components of computing platform .

Controller together with a suitable operating system may operate to execute instructions in the form of computer code and produce and use data. By way of example and not by way of limitation the operating system may be Windows based Mac based or Unix or Linux based or Symbian based among other suitable operating systems. The operating system other computer code including control client described below and or data may be physically stored within a memory block that is operatively coupled to controller .

Memory block encompasses one or more storage media and generally provides a place to store computer code e.g. software and or firmware and data that are used by the computing platform . By way of example memory block may include various tangible computer readable storage media including Read Only Memory ROM and or Random Access Memory RAM . As is well known in the art ROM acts to transfer data and instructions uni directionally to controller and RAM is used typically to transfer data and instructions in a bi directional manner. Memory block may also include one or more fixed storage devices in the form of by way of example solid state hard disk drives HDDs among other suitable forms of memory coupled bi directionally to controller . Information may also reside on a removable storage medium loaded into or installed in multipoint sensing devices when needed. By way of example any of a number of suitable memory cards may be loaded into computing platform on a temporary or permanent basis.

Controller is also generally coupled to a variety of interfaces such as graphics control video interface input interface output interface and storage interface and network interface and these interfaces in turn are coupled to the appropriate devices. In certain embodiment Controller may connected to an input structure and display may be provided together such an in the case of a touchscreen where a touch sensitive mechanism is provided in conjunction with the display . In such embodiments the user may select or interact with displayed interface elements via the touch sensitive mechanism. In this way the displayed interface may provide interactive functionality allowing a user to navigate the displayed interface by touching the display .

Electric signals e.g. analog may be produced by microphone and fed to earpiece . Controller may receive instruction signals from input structure and control the operation of display . By way of example display may incorporate liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED Interferometric modulator display IMOD or any other suitable display technology. Audio signals may be transmitted and received by means of an antenna that may be connected through a radio interface or audio input interface such as microphone to codec configured to process signals under control of controller . Additionally multipoint sensing devices may be powered power source .

Mobile device may also include one or more user input devices other than input structure that are operatively coupled to the controller . Generally input devices are configured to transfer data commands and responses from the outside world into multipoint sensing devices. By way of example mobile device may include a keyboard or mouse. Input devices may also include one or more hard buttons.

Display device is generally configured to display a graphical user interface GUI that provides an easy to use visual interface between a user of the computing platform and the operating system or application s running on the mobile device. Generally the GUI presents programs files and operational options with graphical images. During operation the user may select and activate various graphical images displayed on the display in order to initiate functions and tasks associated therewith.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. For example although the foregoing embodiments have been described in the context of a social network system it will apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be used with any electronic social network service and even if it is not provided through a website. Any computer based system that provides social networking functionality can be used in accordance with the present invention even if it relies for example on e mail instant messaging or other form of peer to peer communications and any other technique for communicating between users. The invention is thus not limited to any particular type of communication system network protocol format or application.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

While the foregoing processes and mechanisms can be implemented by a wide variety of physical systems and in a wide variety of network and computing environments the server or computing systems described below provide example computing system architectures for didactic rather than limiting purposes.

The present invention has been explained with reference to specific embodiments. For example while embodiments of the present invention have been described as operating in connection with a social network system the present invention can be used in connection with any communications facility that allows for communication of messages between users such as an email hosting site. Other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is therefore not intended that the present invention be limited except as indicated by the appended claims.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

