---

title: Methods, devices, and mediums associated with supplementary audio information
abstract: Media data may include audio content and video content. Text may be associated with the audio content and presented on a display device. In response to receiving a selected portion of the text, supplementary information associated with the selected portion of text may be provided to a user. A method, device, or medium may be associated with identifying the selected portion of text and providing the supplementary information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08745683&OS=08745683&RS=08745683
owner: Intellectual Ventures Fund 79 LLC
number: 08745683
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110103
---
Known media devices such as televisions may receive programming or broadcast media which may be presented to a user. The known media device may present the broadcast media as a video output and an audio output via a display and via one or more speakers respectively. The user may have an option of displaying a text version of the audio output on the display which may include a spoken portion of the broadcast media. The displayed text version of the audio output is known as closed captioning.

The closed captioning may be displayed by the media device in place of or in addition to the audio output. The known media devices may be configured to provide closed captioning for the benefit of users who are for example deaf or hearing impaired.

People may watch a video or a broadcast program using a variety of different media devices such as a television a computer or a smart phone. While watching the video the viewer may listen to an audio output associated with the video. The audio output may include spoken words associated with the video. For example the audio output may comprise dialogue associated with one or more actors in the video a commentary made during a sporting event or other type of live event a newscast a talk show a voice over for a documentary or the like or any combination thereof.

The viewer may watch the video with captioning. For example the viewer may be deaf may be hearing impaired may speak a primary language which is different than the language associated with the audio output or the like. The captioning may comprise closed captioning or open captioning. Closed captioning may be available upon demand and in one example the captioning may be viewed by viewers who request the related captioning service. Closed captioning may be encoded into the video. The captioning may be decoded in response to a receipt of a request for service.

Open captioning may be available to all viewers of the associated video and in one example the captioning may be provided to the viewers without a request for the related captioning service. Open captioning may be hardcoded into the video. In one example the captioning may comprise subtitles.

Captioning may comprise dialogue and on screen text associated with the video. Captioning also may comprise non spoken information including a designation of a speaker a description of the type of language or the manner of speaking an indication of music or sound effects associated with the audio content or the like or any combination thereof.

In one example captioning may comprise information transcribed by a human operator or provided by speech to text software and or apparatus during a live broadcast. The captioning also may be associated with a scripted conversation or a predetermined dialogue which may be associated with a transcript. In one example captioning may be prepared in advance of a video broadcast. One or more streams of captioning may be encoded into the video for example in what may be known to those of ordinary skill in the art as line 21 of a vertical blanking interval.

The video may include information of interest to the viewer. For example during a baseball game a sports announcer may mention a famous baseball player and the name of the baseball player may appear in the captioning. The viewer may perform an Internet search to obtain additional information associated with the baseball player such as batting statistics associated with the baseball player. In another example a viewer watching a non English language movie may use an appropriate non English language dictionary to translate a word associated with the audio data.

Network may be operatively coupled to a service provider . In one example network may comprise a media provider network associated with customer nodes or endpoints. Network also may be operatively coupled to one or more search providers such as a search provider and a search provider . Endpoint may be configured to communicate with or request information from at least one of search provider and or search provider .

Service provider may comprise a media service provider such as a cable network provider a satellite network provider a cellular network provider a telephone network provider a broadband network provider or the like or any combination thereof. Service provider may be operatively coupled to an external network . External network may comprise a private intranet or a public network such as the Internet. External network may comprise a network associated with or operated by service provider . Service provider may be configured to communicate with or request information from a search provider via external network .

Endpoint may be associated with one or more controllers . In one example endpoint may comprise a television set a computer a smart phone a home entertainment apparatus a gaming system a media player a customer premise node a set top box or the like or any combination thereof. Endpoint may monitor and record user operations associated with controllers .

Controllers may include a keyboard a pointing device e.g. a mouse a remote controller or the like or any combination thereof. Controllers may be configured to control endpoint to communicate with or request information from service provider and or to communicate with or request information from one or more search providers such as search provider and search provider . Controllers may be configured to communicate with endpoint via wired or wireless communications such as via Ethernet infrared radio wave cellular optical BLUETOOTH registered trademark WI FI registered trademark other types of communication signals and networks or any combination thereof.

Controller interface may provide apparatus with an interface to one or more controllers such as controllers . The controllers may be configured to provide user control of apparatus . Controller interface may comprise a radio transceiver or an optical transceiver for wireless communications with the controllers or may communicate via a cable or wired communication or any combination thereof. One or more of memory and storage may be configured to store instructions associated with an application program.

Processing device may be configured to execute stored instructions. Processing device may access memory and or storage to run store and archive one or more programs. Memory and or storage may comprise RAM ROM or other types of storage or memory devices.

Apparatus may interface with media display . Processing device may be configured to manage and to control video audio or other media content played out on media display . Processing device also may be configured to receive input or commands from a user via controller interface and one or more controllers. Communication to the user may be provided by displaying information on display and or media display . In one example media display may comprise a television a monitor a smart phone a plasma screen a LCD screen a projection screen or the like or any combination thereof. Media display may be configured to display media in addition to the operational status or other types of media system information.

In one example apparatus may comprise a set top box or stand alone device. In another example apparatus may be an integral part of a television or a multi media processing apparatus.

Audio output may be transmitted to one or more speakers . In one example audio output may comprise an apparatus configured to receive audio data from format converter and to transmit audio signals to one or more speakers . One or more speakers may be configured to play out the audio signals as sound.

Video output may be transmitted to a display device . In one example video output may comprise an apparatus configured to receive video data from format converter and to transmit video signals to display device . Video output also may be configured to receive data output from format converter . In one example video output may be configured to superimpose data output with the video signals such that data output may be displayed on display device . Display device may be configured to display data output as text together with video output .

In one example media content may comprise a television broadcast a web cast or a video stream. Audio output may comprise audio or sound recordings associated with the television broadcast and video output may comprise images or a video recording associated with the television broadcast. In one example data output may comprise captioning or subtitles associated with the television broadcast.

One or more formats may be used to transmit display or process media content . For example media content may comprise NTSC PAL HDTV MPEG AVI WMV FLV MHEG other formats or the like or any combination thereof. Apparatus may comprise a television set a computer a smart phone a home entertainment apparatus a gaming system a media player a customer premise node a set top box or the like or any combination thereof.

Media content may comprise a television program a recorded program a video a live feed a digital image an animation streaming video audio media a web cast or the like or any combination thereof. Media content may be provided by a media provider may be stored locally on apparatus such as in a storage or memory device may be stored on a portable media device such as a disk a flash drive a memory card or the like or any combination thereof.

Audio output may be transmitted to one or more speakers . In one example audio output may comprise an apparatus configured to receive audio data from processing device and to transmit audio signals to one or more speakers . Video output may be transmitted to a display device . In one example video output may comprise an apparatus configured to receive video data from processing device and to transmit video signals to display device .

Apparatus may comprise or receive a controller input . Controller input may be provided by a controller such as a remote control a keyboard an optical pointing device or the like or any combination thereof. Controller may be operatively coupled to apparatus via wired or wireless communications such as via Ethernet infrared radio wave cellular optical BLUETOOTH registered trademark WI FI registered trademark other types of communication signals and networks or the like or any combination thereof.

Controller input may comprise a signal or a device configured to receive a signal transmitted by controller . The signal may comprise or be associated with a request a command an instruction a selection a data packet or the like or any combination thereof which may be processed by processing device .

In one example controller input may be associated with a request for supplemental or supplementary information. Processing device may be configured to process or to generate the request and to provide supplementary information in response to receiving the request. Supplementary information may be displayed on display device and or played out on one or more speakers .

In one example processing device may be configured to transmit a request to a data source or a search provider. Processing device also may be configured to receive supplementary information from the search provider in response to transmitting request . The search provider may be selected from a list of available search providers or data sources that may be user selectable.

Apparatus may comprise a television set a computer a smart phone a home entertainment apparatus a gaming system a media player a customer premise node a set top box or the like or any combination thereof. In one example controller may be configured to operate apparatus and or display device .

Media content may comprise video content and audio content. Display device may be configured to display the video content. Processing device may be configured to identify a selected portion of text associated with the audio content. The text may represent a spoken dialogue of the audio content. Processing device also may be configured to determine supplementary information associated with the selected portion of text. The text and or the supplementary information may be displayed on display device .

Controller may be configured to identify and or to transmit a selected type of information from a user selectable list. In one example the supplementary information may be determined according to the selected type of information. The selected type of information may comprise a uniform resource locator a website a search engine a directory a data source a type of language a media provider a service provider a company name a data format or the like or any combination thereof.

In one example processing device may receive a request to scroll through the text. The request may be received from controller . A first word of the text may be highlighted prior to receiving the request. In response to receiving the request a second word of the text may be highlighted in which the selected portion of text may comprise the second word. The selected portion of text may be indicated by highlighting at least one word of the text.

Apparatus may comprise a television a computer a monitor a smart phone a plasma screen a LCD screen a projection screen other types of displays or the like or any combination thereof. In one example apparatus may comprise a display or media display such as display or media display as depicted in .

In one example media content may comprise a television program or the like such as a baseball game. A narrator such as a sports commentator may provide dialogue comparing the batting average of a current batter with a legendary baseball player such as Babe Ruth. Text associated with the dialogue may be presented or displayed on apparatus as the narrator speaks or after a time delay. In other examples narrator may comprise an actor a news anchor a reporter a public figure a sports figure a spokesperson a talk show host a celebrity a singer a voice over an animated character a person or the like or any combination thereof.

Text may be included as data content in a video stream comprising media content . In one example text may be generated based on a speech to text operation or apparatus which may be configured to convert the dialogue associated with narrator into text .

Text may comprise a plurality of words. At least one word in text may be highlighted such as by being underlined placed in bold changed to a different color a different size or a different font or the like or any combination thereof. Highlighted words may indicate a user selectable word. In one example a portion of text such as portion may be highlighted in response to being selected.

Text may be presented in a text box. Text may be associated with one or more navigation buttons such as a left navigation button and a right navigation button . The navigation buttons may be displayed on apparatus or may comprise buttons on a controller such as one or more of controllers . The text box may display a plurality of words spoken over a time period which may comprise a number of seconds. Left navigation button may be configured to select a word spoken near or at the beginning of the time period and right navigation button may be configured to select a word spoken near or at the end of the time period.

In one example left navigation button may be configured to display text associated with words spoken during a first time period preceding the time period associated with text . Right navigation button may be configured to display text associated with words spoken during a second time period following the time period associated with text . Apparatus may be configured to store audio content and or text for an amount of time such as a few minutes to a plurality of hours. In one example apparatus may retrieve text associated with dialogue spoken during a plurality of time periods.

Media content may be provided as streaming media from a media provider or from a service provider. Media content may comprise data broadcast from the media provider to a plurality of subscribers or customer end nodes. Media content also may be received by the plurality of subscribers substantially at the same time such as in a television broadcast a live performance an event being simulcast or the like. In one example media content may be received continuously by the subscribers over the duration of a broadcast a performance an event or the like. Media content may be pre recorded or comprise a motion picture broadcast to the plurality of customers from the media provider. Media content also may be processed by a processing device located at the customer premise.

A pointing device may be configured to control to designate or to select one or more of text box control buttons progress bar and supplementary information object . Pointing device may be controlled by one or more controllers such as a controller . Pointing device may comprise a computer generated graphical icon or cursor or the like or may be an optical pointing device such as an LED pointer or a laser pointer or any combination thereof. In one example apparatus may comprise a media display configured with optical receptors that detect light transmitted from pointing device in order to identify a selected portion of text based on the position of the light on apparatus .

Apparatus may detect movement of pointing device for example as controller may be manipulated by a user. Text box may be displayed as a result of the detected movement. Otherwise text box may not be visible or may become dimmed when apparatus fails to detect any movement of pointing device for a predetermined amount of time. Similarly pointing device may become visible or invisible according to the detected operation or absence of operation of controller .

Supplementary information object may be displayed by apparatus to alert the user of an availability of text box for selection. Supplementary information object may be displayed in a corner of apparatus for example or as a flashing light on controller . Apparatus may be configured to display text box in response to a selection of supplementary information object by pointing device .

Pointing device may be configured to select a portion of text associated with text box . A request for supplementary information may be generated in response to receiving or identifying a selection of the portion of text. In one example text in text box may be displayed in a stationary or static format which remains unchanged as media content continues to play. Text box may comprise text that corresponds to dialogue spoken during or prior to the generation of the request for supplementary information. The text may remain stationary until the selection of a portion of text or until a predetermined amount of time has passed. In one example text box may disappear in response to the passage of the predetermined amount of time.

Control buttons may be configured to navigate text displayed in text box . The text may be stored in a memory or buffer and associated with a time period. In one example the text may be retrieved by navigating through the text box with control buttons and selecting the portion of text with pointing device . Progress bar may demonstrate or indicate a relative position of the text during the time period.

Controller may comprise navigation controls a selection button and an information button . Navigation controls may be configured to manipulate or control a position of pointing device . In one example navigation controls may be configured to highlight different portions of the text.

The portion of text may be selected by pressing selection button . The selected portion of text may comprise at least one word which may be highlighted or otherwise designated as being selected. The portion of text may be selected by pressing selection button with pointing device located generally over one or more words associated with text box .

In one example a first portion of text may comprise the words Babe Ruth. Supplementary information associated with first portion of text may be displayed or presented in response to a selection of first portion of text. A second portion of text may comprise the word baseball. The viewer may select second portion of text by navigating within text box using control buttons and or navigation controls and pressing selection button . Supplementary information associated with second portion of text may be displayed or presented in response to a selection of second portion of text.

Apparatus may be configured to identify significant or key words in text box . Key words may be user selectable. In one example words which are not identified as key words may be ignored or disabled for user selection. Non key words may comprise words such as prepositions conjunctions articles conditionals determiners modals or the like or any combination thereof. In one example non key words may be stored in a database and or memory. Navigation within text box may ignore or skip over non key words such that non key words may be non selectable.

In one example any or all words in text box may be selected. A user may obtain a translation of any word appearing in text box . A user may select a portion of text for translation into a different language. A first set of words may be displayed by text box . When a user navigates to either end of text box the first set of words may be replaced with a second set of words.

In one example apparatus may comprise a memory device configured to store instructions associated with an application program. Apparatus also may comprise a processing device that in response to executing the instructions stored in the memory device may be configured to process media content such as media content comprising video data and audio data.

Apparatus may be configured to cause the video data to be displayed on a display device. Apparatus also may be configured to cause text associated with the audio data to be displayed on the display device. The text may be displayed in a text box such as text box . In one example apparatus may identify a selection of at least one portion of the text and may cause supplementary information associated with the selected at least one portion to be displayed on the display device. Apparatus also may be configured to transmit a request for the supplementary information and the request may comprise the selected at least one portion. The request may be transmitted to a data source such as a search provider a search engine a service provider an on line dictionary a website on the World Wide Web or the like or any combination thereof. In one example the data source may be embedded in the video data or video stream.

Apparatus may be configured to cause a user selectable list of different types of information to be displayed on the display device. Apparatus also may be configured to receive a selected type of information from the user selectable list and the supplementary information may be displayed corresponding to the selected type of information. The user selectable list of different types of information may be associated with or correspond to different spoken languages or to different search providers for example.

The text may be displayed on the display device together with the video data. In one example the video data may comprise streaming video and the audio data may comprise a spoken dialogue of the streaming video. Apparatus may be configured to pause the video data in response to receiving a request for supplementary information. Apparatus also may be configured to buffer the text for a predetermined amount of time associated with a portion of the audio data. In one example apparatus may be configured to scroll through the text responsive to receiving a request to scroll through the text.

In one example apparatus may comprise a computer and a pointing device such as a mouse. The computer may be configured to play a digital video from a web page. Icons or equivalent features in the computer display may perform functions similar to those discussed above with respect to control buttons navigation controls selection button information button or the like or any combination thereof.

In one example the portion of text may become highlighted in response to pointing device passing over one or more words in text box . Placing pointing device over or in proximity to the portion of text or using pointing device to select e.g. click the portion of text may result in the portion of text being selected. The portion of text may be selected by a key stroke or numerical selection on a controller.

Either of the first window or the second window may be a relatively smaller window which overlays supplementary information or video respectively. For example the first window and the second window may be oriented as a picture in picture mode of operation. In another example video and supplementary information may be displayed as split screens on display device . In yet another example the display of video may be replaced with supplementary information on display device . Instead of or in addition to displaying the supplementary information on display device supplementary information may be caused to be played out as audio content. Display device may comprise a television a monitor a smart phone a plasma screen a LCD screen a projection screen other types of display or the like or any combination thereof.

In one example apparatus may comprise a back button which may be configured to return the image being displayed to a default mode of operation comprising video without displaying supplementary information . For example selection of back button may result in display device displaying a full size image of video .

An image of video may be temporarily paused in response to displaying supplementary information . The image may be paused in response to receiving a user input. For example the user input may comprise the selection of a portion of text such as a portion of text associated with text box . Pausing the image may allow for the user to review supplementary information without missing any of video that would otherwise be played. Video may continue to play from the point that the video was paused in response to apparatus receiving a further command from the user or after timing out. In the case of a live feed or streaming media the playback of video may be delayed after the pause. For example video may be temporarily stored while being paused and then played from memory in a delayed state of playback which follows receipt of the streaming media.

Video may be received from a first data source and supplementary information may be received from a second data source. For example one or both of the first and second data sources may comprise a media provider a media player a live video feed a processing device a database a media storage device a website a search engine or the like or any combination thereof. In one example apparatus may be configured to cause a list of data providers to be displayed and the search results may be requested from a selected data provider such as an Internet search engine.

The media system may obtain supplementary information from data provider in response to the selection of data provider . In one example the selection of data provider may be received prior to receipt of the video associated with the selected portion of text. The selection of data provider may be completed during a configuration mode of operation or as part of an order or request for services from a service provider. In one example configuration tool may be displayed the first time the user requests supplementary information.

Configuration tool also may be configured to allow selection of a language . Supplementary information associated with a selected portion of text may be displayed in the selected language . For example the supplementary information may provide a translation of the selected portion of text into language . A default selection of language may be provided as a factory setting for example based on a designated country of a computer operating system.

At operation the video may be evaluated to determine the presence of captioning. Process may progress to operation in response to detecting the presence of captioning. Text may be extracted from the captioning at operation . Process may progress to operation in response to detecting the absence or unavailability of captioning.

At operation the audio portion of the video may be converted to text. In one example the audio portion may be converted to text by a speech to text conversion program software apparatus or the like or any combination thereof. The audio and or captioning may be stored or buffered for an amount of time. In one example the audio portion may be converted to text in response to detecting the supplementary information mode of operation. The stored audio and or captioning may be converted to text.

At operation the text may be displayed. A portion of the text may be associated with links to provide supplementary information. At operation significant or key words of the text may be identified. In one example the portion of text may be highlighted. The portion of text may comprise the key words.

At operation the text may be monitored to determine if a portion of the text has been selected. Supplementary information associated with the selected portion of text may be obtained and may be displayed at operation in response to detecting the selected portion of text. At operation absent any detection of the selected portion of text process may return to operation pending a selection of a portion of text. After a predetermined amount of time process may progress to operation . At operation the text may be removed. Following operation process may return to operation .

Process depicted by and the associated operations may be performed by one or more processing devices such as processing device . In one example a service provider such as service provider may be configured to distribute the video to one or more customer nodes or endpoints. The video may be distributed as streaming video. The one or more endpoints may comprise a distributed network of user devices configured to receive and play the media content.

In one example the processing device may comprise a computer or television set. In another example the processing device may comprise a video head end or a server in computer network configured to process the request to obtain the supplementary information. A display device may be configured to pass remote control inputs keystrokes to the head end device and or server and the head end device and or server may be configured to provide supplementary information via the display device. In one example operations of process may be performed by any combination of the computer the television the head end and or the server.

At operation the media data may be processed to extract the audio data. At operation the audio data may be converted into text. In one example the audio data may be converted into text using a speech to text program software apparatus or the like or any combination thereof.

At operation text corresponding to the audio data may be displayed on the display device. In one example the text may comprise captioning such as closed captioning. Responsive to receiving a request for supplementary information the text may be temporarily paused so that the text remains unchanged. In one example the playing of video data may be paused in response to receiving the request for supplementary information.

At operation a selection of at least one portion of the text may be identified. The selected portion of text may comprise one or more words of the text. In one example a command to scroll through the text may be received prior to the selection of the at least one portion of the text. The text may be stored in a buffer for a predetermined amount of time and the command to scroll may operate to scroll through the text within the predetermined amount of time.

Key words in the text may be highlighted. The selected at least one portion of the text may comprise at least one of the key words. In one example the key words in the text may be distinguished from non key words in the text. Identifying the selection may comprise ignoring each non key word included in the selected at least one portion of the text.

At operation a data source may be identified. The data source may be identified based on a user selection of the data source. At operation supplementary information may be requested from the data source. At operation the supplementary information associated with the selected at least one portion of the text may be displayed on the display device.

Process depicted by and the associated operations may be performed by one or more processing devices such as processing device . In one example a service provider such as service provider may be configured to distribute the video to one or more customer nodes or endpoints. The video may be distributed as streaming video. The one or more endpoints may comprise a distributed network of user devices configured to receive and play the media content.

In one example the processing device may comprise a computer or television set. In another example the processing device may comprise a video head end or a server in computer network configured to process the request to obtain the supplementary information. A display device may be configured to pass remote control inputs keystrokes to the head end device and or server and the head end device and or server may be configured to provide supplementary information via the display device. In one example operations of process may be performed by any combination of the computer the television the head end and or the server.

Service provider may be configured to distribute media to one or more endpoints such as endpoint . The distributed media may comprise video such as streaming video. In one example the distributed media may comprise video content and audio content. Service provider may receive a request for supplementary information from endpoint . The data request may indicate a portion of text associated with the audio content. Responsive to receiving the request service provider may transmit supplementary information to endpoint . In one example the supplementary information may be transmitted to endpoint separately from the media content.

The selected portion of text may comprise at least one word of a first language. The supplementary information may comprise a translation of the at least one word into a second language. In one example the supplementary information may comprise a definition of the selected portion of text. In another example the supplementary information may comprise historical information associated with the selected portion of text. In yet another example the supplementary information may comprise statistical data associated with the selected portion of text.

The supplementary information may be stored in one or more memory devices . Service provider may be configured to associate the selected portion of text with the stored information and identify the information based on the association. Service provider may further be configured to perform an Internet search for the supplementary information. Service provider may comprise one or more processing devices configured to process or perform operations. Instructions for performing the operations may be stored in one or more memory devices . One or more processing devices may be configured to execute the instructions.

One or more network interfaces may be configured to interface with a second network . Second network may comprise a private network of databases or search engines. Second network may comprise a public network such as the Internet. In one example service provider may be configured to request the supplementary information from search provider associated with second network . The search provider may comprise a third party search engine or data source designated or requested by endpoint .

In one example service provider may be configured to operate as a router a gateway or an interface between first network and second network . Endpoint may request the supplementary information from search provider after service provider routes the request.

Controller interface may be configured to interact with one or more controllers such as controllers of . Network interface may be configured to manage interfaces with one or more networks such as network and external network of . User interface may be configured to control the features of a display device or apparatus such as apparatus apparatus or apparatus as depicted in and respectively.

Device interface may be configured to communicate with one or more devices. Display interface may be configured to present information to a display device such as media display of or display device of . Applications may include instructions for or be configured to process media provide supplementary information perform other functions or the like or any combination thereof.

System may be configured to provide or present supplementary information for one or more scenes of a video based on the associated audio. System also may be configured to obtain text from captioning associated with or extract text from the audio in the video to identify significant or key words in the text and to display the text. A viewer may select a portion of the text to request supplementary information. In one example system may be configured to obtain the supplementary information associated with the selected portion of text from a specified source.

In one example system may comprise a computer readable memory device having instructions stored thereon that in response to execution by a processing device may cause the processing device to perform operations. The operations may include processing media data comprising video content and audio content displaying the video content on a display device displaying text associated with the audio content on the display device identifying a selected portion of the text and displaying supplementary information associated with the selected portion of the text on the display device.

The text may comprise a plurality of words and the selected portion of the text may comprise at least one word of the plurality of words. The text may comprise open captioning or closed captioning. In one example the text may comprise subtitles. In another example the supplementary information may comprise a translation of the selected portion of the text into a different language.

The operations also may comprise identifying a preferred source of the supplementary information and requesting the supplementary information from the preferred source. The preferred source may be identified from a user selectable list of search providers. In one example the preferred source may be identified prior to identifying the selected portion of the text. The operations also may comprise transmitting the selected portion of the text to the preferred source as one or more search terms. In one example the media data may comprise the supplementary information and the operations also may comprise converting the media data into the video content the audio content and the supplementary information

The system and apparatus described above may use dedicated processor systems micro controllers programmable logic devices or microprocessors that may perform some or all of the operations described herein. Some of the operations described above may be implemented in software and other operations may be implemented in hardware. One or more of the operations processes or methods described herein may be performed by an apparatus device or system similar to those as described herein and with reference to the illustrated figures.

The processing device may execute instructions or code stored in memory. The memory may store data as well. The processing device may include but may not be limited to an analog processor a digital processor a microprocessor multi core processor processor array network processor etc. The processing device may be part of an integrated control system or system manager or may be provided as a portable electronic device configured to interface with a networked system either locally or remotely via wireless transmission.

The processor memory may be integrated together with the processing device for example RAM or FLASH memory disposed within an integrated circuit microprocessor or the like. In other examples the memory may comprise an independent device such as an external disk drive storage array or portable FLASH key fob. The memory and processing device may be operatively coupled together or in communication with each other for example by an I O port network connection etc. such that the processing device may read a file stored on the memory. Associated memory may be read only by design ROM by virtue of permission settings or not. Other examples of memory may include but may not be limited to WORM EPROM EEPROM FLASH etc. which may be implemented in solid state semiconductor devices. Other memories may comprise moving parts such a conventional rotating disk drive. All such memories may be machine readable in that they may be readable by a processing device.

Operating instructions or commands may be implemented or embodied in tangible forms of stored computer software also known as a computer program or code . Programs or code may be stored in a digital memory that may be read by the processing device. Computer readable storage medium or alternatively machine readable storage medium may include all of the foregoing types of memory as well as new technologies that may arise in the future as long as they may be capable of storing digital information in the nature of a computer program or other data at least temporarily in such a manner that the stored information may be read by an appropriate processing device. The term computer readable may not be limited to the historical usage of computer to imply a complete mainframe mini computer desktop or even laptop computer. Rather computer readable may comprise storage medium that may be readable by a processor processing device or any computing system. Such media may be any available media that may be locally and or remotely accessible by a computer or processor and may include volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media.

A program stored in a computer readable storage medium may comprise a computer program product. For example a storage medium may be used as a convenient means to store or transport a computer program. For the sake of convenience the operations may be described as various interconnected or coupled functional blocks or diagrams. However there may be cases where these functional blocks or diagrams may be equivalently aggregated into a single logic device program or operation with unclear boundaries.

Having described and illustrated the principles of a preferred embodiment it should be apparent that the embodiments may be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. We claim all modifications and variation coming within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

