---

title: Non-textual security using portraits
abstract: A user is authenticated using portraits of known contacts. During a challenge-response process, a collection of portraits are presented, some known to an authenticated user and some randomly selected. Responsive to correctly identifying the known portraits, the user is granted access to a system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09075981&OS=09075981&RS=09075981
owner: YAHOO! INC.
number: 09075981
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110215
---
Embodiments of the invention relate generally to challenge response security systems and more specifically using portraits for security without textual phrases.

Many people use computers and the Internet to store sensitive data such as financial information or personal messages. State of the art systems use a challenge response system for gaining access to user data. For example a valid username and corresponding password are requested for access to banking web sites and to Yahoo Mail.

Problematically as more accounts are available online each user has more usernames and passwords to remember. Some accounts have unique requirements which prevent the user of common usernames and passwords e.g. account number or at least one non alphanumeric character . Furthermore users are increasingly accessing accounts from smart telephones and tablet computers. These devices can have very small and thus difficult to use physical or virtual keyboards. Traditional challenge response techniques are difficult to use in these environments.

In the light of the foregoing discussion there is a need for challenge response security using portraits.

The above mentioned needs are met by a method computer program product and system for verifying a user with portraits. In one embedment no text is entered during authentication.

In one embodiment a user is authenticated using portraits of known contacts. During a challenge response process a collection of portraits are presented some known to an authenticated user and some randomly selected. Responsive to correctly identifying the known portraits the user is granted access to a system.

In another embodiment portraits known to a user are automatically selected. When used in a social network known portraits can be automatically selected from friend profile pictures or tags. Also known portraits can be manually uploaded by a user.

Advantageously a user can easily and securely log in to a system without having to remember credentials and without using text.

The features and advantages described in this summary and in the following detailed description are not all inclusive and particularly many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art in view of the drawings specification and claims hereof. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter resort to the claims being necessary to determine such inventive subject matter.

The above mentioned needs are met by a method computer program product and system for securing an account using portraits. In one embodiment the account can be accessed without entering text. The following detailed description is intended to provide example implementations to one of ordinary skill in the art and is not intended to limit the invention to the explicit disclosure as one or ordinary skill in the art will understand that variations can be substituted that are within the scope of the invention as described.

At step portrait based security credentials are associated with an Internet account as described below with respect to . The account can be any type of account but typically relates to some type of personal information. In some cases the personal information is private or sensitive such as financial accounts or message accounts. In one example an online bank account stores bank account or credit card numbers account balances an exhaustive list of financial transactions showing amounts and locations of purchases and more. In another example an online mail account such as Yahoo Mail stores e mails between an individual and personal friends and business associates. Further such an account can store a personal address book calendar and notes. In other embodiments the account can be stored locally or over a network other than the Internet e.g. a LAN .

In still another example an account can link an individual to social networking with friends or categories of friends associates followers or fans. Social networking web sites such as Yahoo Pulse or Facebook allow a user to communicate with and track the activities of approved friends. The account can include a profile picture showing a candid or posed portrait of the user. Each friend can also have a profile picture. Additionally pictures can be uploaded and tagged by other users. When tagging a picture uploaded by a user that includes a friend is marked for sharing. As a result mutual friends and others can view the picture from the friend s account. Some users post hundreds of pictures of themselves and friends.

Security credentials are designed to prevent individuals and software bots other than an authorized individual or bot from accessing the information. On the other hand the authorized user can access the account from any Internet connection whether it be from the user s personal computer to a publicly available personal computer at an Internet caf . One type of security credential paradigm is the challenge response technique. A user attempting to access an account is presented with a predetermined request for information such as username and password. The user responds by providing the assigned or customized information that is typically provided when the account is set up.

The portraits can be any photograph of likeness of a subject. In one embodiment some or all portraits are photographs of friends or contacts known to a user. Some portraits may have been tagged personally by a user and some portraits may have been tagged by another friend of the user. Preferably the rendition of a friend in a portrait is recognizable a user attempting authentication.

At step an account is accessed using portraits as described below with respect to . By identifying a sample of portraits that include friends of a user from a larger set of random portraits the user is authenticated.

At step a user is given access to an account. Once a user has been authenticated the stored data is available to the user for the duration of a session. Additionally the user can create modify or delete the data. Authenticated transactions may be carried out e.g. transfer of funds . The session can be defined in a variety of ways. In one embodiment the session can last until a browser or browser tab is closed. In another embodiment a session can span across opening and closing browsers as facilitated by as background process that is authenticated until explicitly stopped.

At step a user activates pass photo. In one embodiment pass photo is an optional feature that is activated through the settings of an account e.g. a drop down menu . Pass photo can be an optional feature that is turned on or off using account settings. Pass photo can also be used in addition to a text password requirement. In one embodiment pass photo by virtue of its unpredictability is used to prevent automated log ins from being performed by a bot. Pass photo can also be configured for automatic activation when authenticating from a device such as a smart telephone that does not use a traditional keyboard.

At step a set of portraits known to a user are identified. In one embodiment known pictures are uploaded to an account. The pictures can be portraits or non portraits since the subject matter should be recognizable to the user. Pictures may need to be uploaded for accounts that do not inherently host pictures.

Many social networks already include pictures associated with an account and thus do not need to be uploaded. In this case pictures of friends or categories of friends are selected from tags and profiles. The pictures can be from a user account a friend account a friend of friend account or any account or other Internet source e.g. Yahoo Image Searcy in which that friend is positively identified. In some embodiments a pool of known pictures is updated. Updates can occur whenever new portraits are identified or periodically. Also a user may manually configure automatically selected portraits such as those that are confusing.

In one embodiment a predetermined number of pictures must be uploaded to meet certain security criteria. Additional pictures allow more combinations for authentication and thus a more secure system.

In some embodiments a stock of random pictures is provided. These pictures are not known to the user and help distinguish an authenticated user from a hacker.

At step selected portraits are processed to determine whether they are appropriate for pass photos. In one embodiment the pictures are automatically verified as portraits when automatically selected i.e. rather than user selected pictures .

At step a user attempts to access a secured account. From any type of computing device a browser or other application can access a URL leading to an account. A page showing non sensitive parts of the account can be presented along with a challenge response using portraits as described herein.

At step a collection of portraits is presented to a user. Some of the collection includes friends known to the user while some of the collection includes random pictures. The ratio of friends and strangers can vary i.e. 3 friends can be presented in one instance and 2 friends can be presented in a separate instance .

In one embodiment the number of stranger pictures is limited. Otherwise if the stranger pictures change each time and the friend pictures are limited a potential hacker can continually refresh a web page to deduce which photos are friends.

At step a user enters a selection of portraits as a verification attempt. For example two portraits out of ten presented may be recognized as friends. A touch screen mouse or other pointing device can be used to make the choices. If both portraits are correct access may automatically be granted. Alternatively a virtual button may need to be depressed for verification.

At step if the selected portraits match the known portraits a user is authenticated at step and if not a user is not authenticated at step . In some embodiments a user can make another attempt at authentication. In other embodiments a user is given a predetermined number of attempts e.g. three attempts before being locked out of the account.

On the other hand at step if the selected portraits do not match the known portraits a user is denied access to the account and must make another authentication attempts.

The computing device can be for example a PC a stationary computing device a laptop or notebook computer a tablet computer a smart phone or PDA a smart appliance a video gaming console an Internet television a set top box or any other suitable processor based device that can send view advertisements. There can be numerous computing devices used by different users. In one embodiment the computing device provides user access to an online account. Additional embodiments of the computing device are described in more detail below.

The security server can be one or more of any of the above processor based devices. In one embodiment security server manages configuration and operation of the challenge response paradigm as described herein. Additional embodiments of the security server are described in more detail below.

The social network server can be one or more of any of the above processing based devices. In one embodiment the social network server hosts a social networking web site such as Yahoo Profile Facebook or Twitter. In one embodiment the social network server and the security server can be part of a single device or be operated by a single entity. In other embodiments they are separately maintained.

The bus can be soldered to one or more motherboards. The processor can be a general purpose processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC an FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array a RISC Reduced Instruction Set Controller processor an integrated circuit or the like. There can be a single core multiple cores or more than one processor. In one embodiment the processor is specially suited for the processing demands of accessing an account e.g. custom micro code instruction fetching pipelining or cache sizes . The processor can be disposed on silicon or any other suitable material. In operation the processor can receive and execute instructions and data stored in the memory or the hard drive . The hard drive can be a platter based storage device a flash drive an external drive a persistent memory device or any other type of memory.

The hard drive provides persistent i.e. long term storage for instructions and data. The I O port is an input output panel including a network card . The network card can be for example a wired networking card e.g. a USB card or an IEEE 802.3 card a wireless networking card e.g. an IEEE 802.11 card or a Bluetooth card a cellular networking card e.g. a 3G card . An interface is configured according to networking compatibility. For example a wired networking card includes a physical port to plug in a cord and a wireless networking card includes an antennae. The network card provides access to a communication channel on a network.

The memory can be a RAM Random Access Memory a flash memory a non persistent memory device or any other device capable of storing program instructions being executed. The memory further comprises a web browser and an OS operating system module . The OS module can be one of the Microsoft Windows family of operating systems e.g. Windows 95 98 Me Windows NT Windows 2000 Windows XP Windows XP x64 Edition Windows Vista Windows CE Windows Mobile Linux HP UX UNIX Sun OS Solaris Mac OS X Alpha OS AIX IRIX32 or IRIX64.

The web browser can be a desktop web browser e.g. Internet Explorer Mozilla or Chrome a mobile browser or a web viewer built integrated into an application program. In an embodiment a user accesses a system on the World Wide Web WWW through a network such as the Internet. The web browser is used to download web pages or other content in various formats including HTML XML text PDF and postscript and may be used to upload information to other parts of the system. The web browser may use URLs to identify resources on the web and HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol in transferring files on the web. In one embodiment the web browser provides a user interface for a user account being accessed.

The memory comprises an OS module as described above along with a pass photo module . The pass photo module authenticates a user to the social network server of . The pass photo module is described in more detail below.

In one embodiment the client communication module sends and receives information from the computing device of using APIs transported within network packets. The portrait configuration module identifies and processes portraits known to a user. In one embodiment the portrait configuration module further comprise a facial detection module to verify that a portrait includes a face and characterize features of the face for matching. The portrait authentication module manages the challenge response to authenticate a user. The social network interface interacts with a social network to identify authenticated users as described herein.

As described herein computer software products may be written in any of various suitable programming languages such as C C C Pascal Fortran Perl Matlab from MathWorks SAS SPSS JavaScript AJAX and Java. The computer software product may be an independent application with data input and data display modules. Alternatively the computer software products may be classes that may be instantiated as distributed objects. The computer software products may also be component software such as Java Beans from Sun Microsystems or Enterprise Java Beans EJB from Sun Microsystems . Many of the functionalities described herein can be implemented in computer software computer hardware or a combination.

Furthermore the computer that is running the previously mentioned computer software may be connected to a network and may interface to other computers using this network. The network may be an intranet internet or the Internet among others. The network may be a wired network e.g. using copper telephone network packet network an optical network e.g. using optical fiber or a wireless network or any combination of these. For example data and other information may be passed between the computer and components or steps of a system of the invention using a wireless network using a protocol such as Wi Fi IEEE standards 802.11 802.11a 802.11b 802.11e 802.11g 802.11i and 802.11n just to name a few examples . For example signals from a computer may be transferred at least in part wirelessly to components or other computers.

It is to be understood that although various components are illustrated herein as separate entities each illustrated component represents a collection of functionalities which can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of these. Where a component is implemented as software it can be implemented as a standalone program but can also be implemented in other ways for example as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a kernel loadable module as one or more device drivers or as one or more statically or dynamically linked libraries.

As will be understood by those familiar with the art the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the portions modules agents managers components functions procedures actions layers features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names divisions and or formats.

Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the portions modules agents managers components functions procedures actions layers features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the invention can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Of course wherever a component of the present invention is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a script as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate scripts and or programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the present invention is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment.

Furthermore it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the relevant art that where the present invention is implemented in whole or in part in software the software components thereof can be stored on computer readable media as computer program products. Any form of computer readable medium can be used in this context such as magnetic or optical storage media. Additionally software portions of the present invention can be instantiated for example as object code or executable images within the memory of any programmable computing device.

Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

