---

title: System and method for event-driven inventory disposition
abstract: A method and system for event-driven inventory disposition are disclosed. According to one embodiment, a method may include detecting a disposition event associated with a given one of a number of inventory items. The method may further include evaluating each of a number of disposition channels with respect to the given item in response to detecting the disposition event, and dependent upon the evaluation, selecting a particular disposition channel through which to dispose of the given item. In one particular implementation of the method, detecting the disposition event may include detecting an indication that an expected profitability of the given item is less than a threshold value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08463665&OS=08463665&RS=08463665
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08463665
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110111
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 076 844 which was filed on Mar. 10 2005.

In order to offer customers a variety of items readily available for delivery many merchants whether engaging in electronic or conventional brick and mortar commerce hold various quantities of such items within inventory facilities. Keeping items in inventory may serve to buffer variations in customer demand or a manufacturer or distributor s ability to supply various items. For example different items offered for sale by a merchant may have different manufacturer lead times. Holding quantities of such items as inventory may enable a merchant to offer consistent availability of these items to customers despite the different lead times.

Many merchants employ conventional inventory management schemes that attempt simply to ensure that the inventory on hand is sufficient to cover expected customer order volumes for a particular period of time. That is such conventional inventory management schemes focus on whether there is enough inventory on hand to meet projected demand. However storing inventory is not without cost. For example providing a physical facility in which to store inventory presents recurring infrastructure costs directly attributable to the inventory items stored in the facility. Further while items are in storage awaiting sale debt or capital costs associated with acquiring the items may accumulate. When inventory holding costs are considered having too much inventory may also be a concern as accumulating costs may erode profitability.

However taking holding costs into account when optimizing inventory presents challenges. Different items may incur different types of costs and present different sales dynamics. In principle intervention may be undertaken to mitigate the costs of underperforming items for example by reducing the number of such items on hand. However aggregating costs across such different items may obscure inventory management intervention opportunities at the item level. Further multiple disposition options may exist with respect to a given item not all of which may equally satisfy desired constraints on intervention outcome.

Various embodiments of a method and system for event driven inventory disposition are disclosed. According to one embodiment a method may include detecting a disposition event associated with a given one of a number of inventory items. The method may further include evaluating each of a number of disposition channels with respect to the given item in response to detecting the disposition event and dependent upon the evaluation selecting a particular disposition channel through which to dispose of the given item. In one particular implementation of the method detecting the disposition event may include detecting an indication that an expected profitability of the given item is less than a threshold value.

A system is further contemplated that according to one embodiment may include a number of disposition channels and a disposition service. The disposition service may be configured to detect a disposition event associated with a given one of a number of inventory items and in response to detecting the disposition event evaluate each of the number of disposition channels with respect to the given item. The disposition service may be further configured to select a particular disposition channel through which to dispose of the given item dependent upon the evaluation. In one particular implementation the system may further include an inventory management system configured to determine that an expected profitability of the given item is less than a threshold value and to responsively generate the disposition event associated with the given item.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

One embodiment of a fulfillment center configured to store inventory items is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment fulfillment center includes a receiving area a storage area configured to store an arbitrary number of items and a packing shipping area . The arrangement of the various areas within the illustrated embodiment of fulfillment center is depicted functionally rather than schematically. For example in some embodiments it is noted that multiple different receiving areas storage areas and packing shipping areas may be interspersed rather than segregated. Additionally fulfillment center includes an inventory management system configured to interact with each of receiving area storage area and packing shipping area .

Fulfillment center may be configured to receive different kinds of items from various suppliers and to store them until a customer order specifying particular ones of items is received. The particular items may then be selected from storage and sent to the customer. The general flow of items through fulfillment center is indicated using arrows. Specifically in the illustrated embodiment items may be received from one or more suppliers such as manufacturers distributors wholesalers etc. at receiving area . In various embodiments items may include merchandise commodities perishables or any suitable type of item depending on the nature of the business operating fulfillment center . Upon being received from a supplier at receiving area items may be prepared for storage. For example in some embodiments items may be unpacked or otherwise rearranged and inventory management system which as described below may include one or more software applications executing on a computer system may be updated to reflect the type quantity condition cost or any other suitable parameters with respect to newly received items .

After arriving through receiving area items may be stored within storage area . In some embodiments like items may be stored together in bins on shelves or via other suitable storage mechanisms such that all items of a given kind are stored in one location. In other embodiments like items may be stored in different locations. For example to optimize retrieval of certain items having high turnover within a large physical facility those items may be stored in several different locations to reduce congestion that might occur at a single point of storage.

When a customer order specifying one or more of items is received the corresponding items may be selected or picked from storage area . In various embodiments item picking may range from minimally automated to completely automated. For example in one embodiment fulfillment center employees may pick items using written pick lists derived from customer orders while in another embodiment conveyor belts and robotics may be used to pick and transfer items . After the items corresponding to a particular order are picked they may be processed at packing shipping area for delivery to the customer. For example items may be packaged for shipment to the customer using a common carrier or simply bagged or otherwise prepared to be given to a customer at an order pickup counter. In some embodiments further interaction with inventory management system may occur when items are picked from storage area and or processed at packing shipping area for example to update inventory records to reflect the removal of inventory record revenue for the sale or other transaction e.g. lease rental exchange etc and so forth.

Management of items stored as inventory within fulfillment center presents complex optimization problems. For example if a particular item ordered by a customer is not in stock within fulfillment center the customer may be forced to wait for delivery until that particular item can be obtained or the customer may cancel the order resulting in a lost sale. Consequently keeping a number of units of items on hand may assist in the timely fulfillment of orders and increase customer satisfaction.

However various costs are typically associated with holding items in storage for any period of time. In some embodiments holding a unit of an item in storage within storage area may incur incremental storage costs. For example the cost of providing fulfillment center in which items may be stored may include recurring real estate costs e.g. lease costs debt service etc. personnel costs facilities costs e.g. utilities maintenance etc. and any other costs associated with fulfillment center . In one embodiment such costs may be incrementally apportioned to a given unit of an item according to an area or volume of storage space occupied by that unit. For example storage costs may be applied to each unit of each item at a rate of dollars per square cubic foot of item volume per unit of storage time day week month etc. . In other embodiments different cost allocation methods may be employed. For example in one embodiment the costs of providing special storage or handling such as refrigeration controlled atmosphere etc. may exclusively be allocated to those items that require such measures rather than averaging those costs across all items . Similarly in one embodiment storage may include temporary capacity e.g. short term leased space seasonal overflow capacity etc. as well as permanent capacity e.g. owned space year round capacity etc. each of which may have different cost characteristics. Correspondingly in some such embodiments items stored within a particular type of facility may exclusively incur costs of the particular type of facility according to their storage utilization e.g. area volume etc. . Alternatively storage costs may be allocated to items based upon their value or sales volume as opposed to their size. In some embodiments additional costs associated with obtaining a given item such as transportation handling costs charged by a supplier or incurred by eventual shipment to a customer may be included within storage costs for that given item .

In addition to storage costs in some embodiments holding a unit of an item in storage may incur capital or economic costs related to the price paid to obtain the item. That is once working capital or cash flow is committed to a unit of an item e.g. once that unit is paid for that economic value is not available for other purposes the committed value is tied up in the corresponding inventory. Depending on the accounting scheme used to manage the costs of inventory a cost of debt or other time value of money cost also referred to as an economic cost may be associated with the price paid for a given unit of an item . For example in one embodiment an effective annual interest rate of 6 may be applied to the price paid for a unit of inventory and may continue to accrue until that unit is sold or otherwise disposed of. In some embodiments economic costs may be applied to storage costs in addition to the price paid for a unit of inventory. In certain cases negative economic costs may also be associated with units of items . For example a supplier may offer a rebate for an item that effectively reduces its cost.

One definition of the profitability or margin of a given item may be given as the difference between the revenue received e.g. the sale price for the given item and the cost paid to acquire and hold the given item until the date of the transaction resulting in revenue. As illustrated in storage and economic costs associated with the given item may increase over time and the sale price may fluctuate between the time the given item was received into inventory and the time it was sold. In the graph of the time the given item was received into inventory is given as t. The cost and current price of the given item as of the time of receipt are given as pc and P respectively. In some embodiments as described above the initial item cost pc for a given item may include the price paid for the given item as well as all costs associated with receiving the given item into inventory including transportation costs from the supplier to fulfillment center labor costs to receive and stock item etc.

As shown in the revenue or price associated with the given item may vary as a function of time illustrated as the curve P t . In the illustrated embodiment storage costs for the given item may begin accruing as of t. However economic costs may begin accruing at a later time according to the terms of payment set by the supplier of the given item . For example some suppliers may require payment within 60 or 90 days of delivery. The time at which economic costs begin accruing for the given item which is generally the time at which payment is actually made is given as t. For items that must be paid for upon receipt tmay be equal to t. Total costs of holding the given item over time including both storage and economic costs are illustrated as the curve C t .

According to the definition of profitability given above the total profit or margin of the given item at a particular time is given as the difference between P t and C t at that time. It is noted that at the point these two curves intersect illustrated as the breakeven point the total margin associated with the given item has been eroded by the holding costs such that a sale or other transaction involving the given item after this point may result in a net loss when accounting for holding costs. To the extent that the relationships P t and C t are understood the likelihood that a particular unit of a given item will have a positive profitability or not may be determined depending on an expected date of revenue or disposition of the particular unit. It is noted that profitability may be negative. For example in the region of beyond the illustrated breakeven point costs exceed revenues such that the difference between revenue and costs is less than zero. An item having a positive profitability may also be referred to as being profitable and an item having a negative profitability may also be referred to as being unprofitable. 

Often revenue may be realized when an item is sold. However it is contemplated that other types of revenue generating transactions may occur for an item and may be the subject of inventory metrics and profitability analysis as described below. For example an item may be rented leased or licensed to a customer under specific terms in exchange for revenue. The term sale may be used herein to generically describe any suitable transaction involving an item resulting in either direct or indirect e.g. imputed or tangential revenue and is intended to encompass rentals leases subscriptions and other types of revenue models.

Information relating to inventory cost and pricing as well as any other information pertinent to inventory such as condition quantity acquisition date purchase terms etc. may collectively be referred to as inventory metrics. In some embodiments of inventory management system inventory metrics may be generated collected and evaluated to yield information that may be used to make decisions regarding specific inventory items as described in greater detail below. In particular as described below in some embodiments inventory metrics may be manipulated and analyzed with respect to individual inventory items in contrast to metrics that are averaged over an aggregation of items. In some embodiments inventory metrics may include metrics indicative of the overall health of inventory items either individually or in aggregation. Generally speaking inventory health may reflect factors such as expected profitability of items rate of inventory turnover inventory coverage versus expected demand or other factors of interest.

One exemplary embodiment of inventory management system is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment inventory management system includes an extract transform manager also referred to as inventory manager or simply manager configured to interact with multiple different services and data sources including an inventory cost IC database a forecast service a pricing service a purchasing records database a modeling parameters database and a product details database . As described in greater detail below manager may be configured to interact with the aforementioned services and data sources or other services and or data sources to produce inventory metrics that may be stored in inventory metrics database . Manager may also be configured to interact with a disposition service .

In the illustrated embodiment one client may be configured to interact directly with inventory metrics database for example through a query interface. In some embodiments client may also interact directly with manager for example to gain access to other data sources or services within system . Additionally client may be configured to interact with inventory metrics database via a web services interface . In some embodiments client may also access manager via web services interface for purposes similar to client . Generally speaking a web services interface may be configured to provide a standard cross platform API for communication between a client requesting some service to be performed and the service provider. In some embodiments web services interface may be configured to support the exchange of documents including information describing the service request and response to that request. Such documents may be exchanged using standardized web protocols such as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for example and may be formatted in a platform independent data format such as eXtensible Markup Language XML for example. By employing the web services model including the use of standard web protocols and platform independent document formatting the number of types of interfaces manager needs to support may be reduced and cross platform interoperability of clients and manager may be improved.

A data source may generally include any suitable type of repository configured for data storage and access. For example in some embodiments a data source may include a relational database or a data warehouse having a query language interface. Alternatively a data source may include a spreadsheet or a text document including documents formatted in a markup language such as a version of Hypertext Markup Language HTML or a version of eXtensible Markup Language XML or minimally structured documents such as plain text documents. The terms data source and database may be used interchangeably herein to broadly refer to any suitable type of data repository.

In general a service may include an entity such as a program process web service or another suitable entity that may be configured to receive one or more input parameters and to responsively provide one or more results. For example in one embodiment a service may include a process configured to listen for requests to a particular network address or port to evaluate such requests and to return results to the requestor. It is contemplated that in some embodiments a data source may be implemented using a service and vice versa. For example a database may present a query interface to clients as a service.

In one embodiment manager may be configured to retrieve inventory metrics and other information from a variety of sources and services such as those illustrated in and to apply transformations to the retrieved information to derive new inventory metrics configured to assess the current and predicted future state of various items . One such method of data transformation is described below in conjunction with the description of . Different embodiments of the data sources and services that may function as inputs to such data transformation may include the following features.

Inventory cost database may be configured to store various types of information pertaining to items actually stored in inventory within one or more fulfillment centers at a given time. For example in one embodiment inventory cost database may be configured as a relational or non relational database storing a number of inventory records each including a number of fields. In one embodiment a given inventory record may include some combination of a number of fields including a unique identifier specific to the kind of item corresponding to the record e.g. a Stock Keeping Unit SKU code an International Standard Book Number ISBN a Universal Product Code UPC a proprietary item specific code another type of code or a combination of such identifiers . The given inventory record may also include an indication of the quantity of the corresponding item such as a number of individual units of an item to which the record corresponds. The given inventory record may further include such fields as a cost paid for the corresponding unit s of item e.g. a per unit cost or an aggregate cost a location of the units e.g. identifying a particular fulfillment center and or a particular location within a fulfillment center a date of acquisition or receipt of the units e.g. t and or a condition grade of the units e.g. a numerical grade indicating whether the units are in new condition or in various state of damage . In some embodiments the given inventory record may include other fields such as a field indicating the general product or accounting group to which units of item belong.

It is noted that records may be stored with different degrees of aggregation in different embodiments of inventory cost database depending in part on the fields defined for records within the database. For example in one embodiment each record may include a field for a unique per unit identifier such as a serial number and each unit of a given item may correspond to a single respective record according to its unique unit identifier. In another embodiment units of a given item may be aggregated within a single record to the extent those units share common values for the fields of that record. For example units of a given item acquired on the same date for the same price and in the same condition may be indicated by a single record including these fields as well as the total quantity of the corresponding units.

In some embodiments inventory cost database may be accessed and updated each time a unit of an item is stored into inventory or is sold or otherwise disposed of. In such embodiments inventory cost database may reflect a real time or near real time state of items stored within fulfillment center . In other embodiments specific inventory transactions involving items may be batched and processed in groups at intervals such as hourly or daily. It is contemplated that in some embodiments a single instance of inventory cost database may store inventory information for items stored in multiple different fulfillment centers while in other embodiments each fulfillment center may utilize a respective inventory cost database .

Forecast service and pricing service in some embodiments may respectively be configured to provide forecasted transaction and revenue e.g. pricing information for a given item . For example in one embodiment forecast service may be configured to predict sales volume on a daily weekly monthly or other time basis for a given item . Similarly in one embodiment pricing service may be configured to predict the future price of the given item at different points in time e.g. to predict the shape of the curve P t .

In one embodiment each of forecast service and pricing service may implement a model configured to draw from a variety of inputs in order to make a prediction. For example the model implemented by forecast service may be configured to consult historical sales or other transaction data for a given item to make a first order assumption regarding future transaction behavior for given item such as to identify seasonal or other trends in demand. Similarly pricing service may model future pricing as a function of historical pricing. However far more sophisticated models of sales and pricing are possible and contemplated. For example in some embodiments sales modeling for a given item may take into account historical behavior of similar items future product development plans empirical customer shopping data e.g. as evidenced by tracking and collecting data on customer navigation of an e commerce website customer demographics and trends planned marketing or promotional efforts or other factors. Likewise in some embodiments price modeling for the given item may take into account historical price behavior of similar items competitive trends supply vs. demand trends or other pricing factors. Additionally in some embodiments a forecast of transaction behavior provided by forecast service may take into account expectations of future pricing such as may be provided by pricing service and vice versa. For example a planned future price promotion for an item such as a sale or rebate for example may be expected to increase its demand. Conversely changes in future demand for an item e.g. due to seasonality supply constraints or surpluses etc. may correspondingly affect its pricing.

It is contemplated that in some embodiments any measurable business or economic variable having a correlation with sales or pricing may be taken into consideration by forecast service or pricing service . For example data mining or sensitivity analysis techniques may be performed on historical data to discern the correlation of various variables with item sales or price behavior. In some embodiments different models may be used for different types of items . For example sales and pricing behavior may be modeled for classes of items such as books DVDs appliances etc. or for each individual item . It is also contemplated that in some embodiments price and sales modeling may be interdependent. For example in one embodiment each of forecast service and pricing service may consult the other in the course of making a prediction and in some instances sales and price modeling may be performed iteratively. In some embodiments forecast service and pricing service may be implemented as a single entity for example as one service including several separate models or one complex model. It is also noted that in some embodiments revenue may not actually be received as of an estimated or actual transaction date depending on accounting practices payment terms etc. For example in some instances a purchase transaction may be made on credit terms. In some such embodiments an estimated or expected transaction date may include a date at which revenue becomes liable regardless of whether tangible value has been exchanged. In other embodiments a transaction date may reflect actual settlement of revenue which may occur after liability for revenue begins.

Purchasing records database may be configured to store records pertaining to the ordering and acquisition of various items from corresponding suppliers. For example in one embodiment purchasing records database may include the details of specific purchase orders placed for specific items which may include details such as the purchase order date an indication of the item s and corresponding quantities ordered identification of who originated and or approved the purchase order etc. Additionally in some embodiments purchasing records database may include information provided by various suppliers such as purchase order acknowledgement approval or other order status information expected order shipping date transportation handling charges order payment terms e.g. net on receipt or within a period of time after receipt or other relevant information. Like inventory cost database described above in some embodiments purchasing records database may be updated in real time or near real time as orders for inventory are placed acknowledged and processed while in other embodiments purchasing records database may be updated in batches at intervals of time.

Analyses to determine expected holding costs profit margins and other salient inventory metrics associated with items may depend on one or more parameters. For example as described above in conjunction with the description of in some embodiments the holding cost of a given item may depend on a storage cost and an economic cost associated with holding the given item . In one embodiment storage cost may be parameterized in terms of cost per unit of item area volume or other attribute per unit of storage time such as a fixed cost per square foot of item area per day for example. Similarly economic cost may be parameterized as a cost of capital or cost of debt such as an annual interest rate of 6 applied daily for example. It is contemplated that other parameters may apply to calculations of inventory metric and that these parameters need not be constants. For example as described above in one embodiment different storage cost parameters may apply to different items depending on the type of storage required. Similarly different economic cost parameters may be associated with different items depending on the value or liquidity of the items . In some embodiments parameters used in modeling inventory metrics may themselves be simple or complex functions. For example in one embodiment a storage cost parameter may include a function that takes into account declining real estate debt for a fulfillment center over time correspondingly reducing that component of storage costs as debt is retired. In the illustrated embodiment these and other modeling parameters are collectively shown as modeling parameters although it is contemplated that in some embodiments such parameters may be built into manager or incorporated within other data sources.

In some embodiments manager may be configured to generate reports of various inventory metrics including metrics reflecting the current and projected future state of various inventory items . For example one possible type of report may order groups of items according to their accumulated holding costs as of a given date. In some instances it may be useful to report or format inventory metrics on the basis of information specific to items that may not be stored elsewhere. For example in one embodiment reporting of metrics for items may be segregated according to the general class or type to which an item belongs e.g. books music electronics clothing etc. by more specific categories or subcategories within a class or type of item e.g. handheld audio devices MP3 players by manufacturer or brand name or by a combination of these or other item attributes. Many of these attributes may be useful for organizing and reporting information about items but not necessary for tracking and managing the dynamic inventory status of items . Thus in some embodiments various details regarding attributes of items may be stored separately from inventory status information. For example in the illustrated embodiment inventory cost database may be configured to utilize a unique item identifier to differentiate inventory records corresponding to various items while product details database may be configured to store additional details or attributes such as product category manufacturer information item specifications etc. that are associated with particular items . In one embodiment both inventory cost database and product details database may include records indexed by a common field such as a unique item identifier field such that manager may cross reference both data sources.

In some embodiments inventory metrics database may be configured to store inventory metrics derived from other data sources by manager . For example in one embodiment inventory metrics database may be configured to store data regarding the expected profitability of various items as determined by analysis of metrics from a variety of data sources and services as described below in conjunction with the description of . In some such embodiments inventory metrics database may be configured to store only derivative metrics that is information not already stored elsewhere . However in other embodiments inventory metrics database may also be configured to warehouse or consolidate data that is also stored in other places within inventory management system . For example in one embodiment manager may be configured to extract records or portions of records stored in inventory cost database purchasing records database or elsewhere within system to transform extracted data e.g. by reformatting or analysis and to store such records or record portions within inventory metrics database in addition to other metrics derived from the extracted data. Such a model of interaction among various data sources manager and inventory metrics database may be referred to as an extract transform load model. In the embodiment of the load path from manager to database is explicitly shown it being understood that manager may perform extraction from any of the other data sources shown. In some instances warehousing certain records originating from different data sources within one data source may improve the performance of querying or processing the warehoused records. For example such warehousing may reduce the number of queries needed to access the warehoused records. Additionally in embodiments where different data sources are geographically distributed or subject to congestion warehousing records may reduce the latency e.g. network latency associated with repeatedly accessing a distant or congested data source.

It is noted that the illustrated architecture of inventory management system is intended only as an example and that in alternative embodiments the various different types of data sources and services implemented within inventory management system may be partitioned in different ways. For example different data sources such as inventory cost database and purchasing records database may be implemented as a single data source or their contents may be distributed across a different number of data sources. In some embodiments certain data items may be replicated across multiple different data sources. Also in some embodiments manager may be implemented as multiple different modules processes or threads.

As mentioned above analysis of inventory metrics may yield information useful for managing inventory for example to identify inventory items that are actually unprofitable or at risk of becoming unprofitable due to excessive holding costs. One embodiment of a method of evaluating expected profitability of inventory items is illustrated in . Referring collectively to operation begins in block where data corresponding to the current state of one or more inventory items is extracted from one or more data sources. For example in one embodiment manager may be configured to consult inventory cost database to extract records indicating how many units of a given item are currently stored in inventory when those units were acquired the cost paid for the units and or other relevant item details that may be stored in inventory cost database . Additionally manager may be configured to consult purchasing records database to determine the payment terms and status corresponding to units of given item . In some embodiments manager may be configured to store these extracted records within inventory metrics database as described above while in other embodiments manager may be configured to store extracted records locally e.g. within internal data structures while they are analyzed.

Multiple transformation or analysis steps may then be performed on the extracted data in various orders. In the illustrated embodiment the duration of storage of each unit of items is determined block . For example in one embodiment manager may be configured to use the date that a particular unit of an item was received into inventory e.g. as may be extracted from inventory cost database to calculate the current storage duration of the particular unit in days weeks etc. The accrued storage cost to date for each unit of items is then calculated block . For example in one embodiment manager may be configured to apply storage cost parameters in conjunction with relevant item characteristics e.g. as may be extracted from modeling parameters and or product details database to determine storage costs appropriate to particular items and then accumulate those costs for units of those particular items according to their respective storage durations.

Similarly a duration of economic costs for each unit of items is determined block . In some instances economic liability for units of an item may begin when the units are received into inventory such that economic costs begin to accrue at roughly the same time that storage costs begin to accrue. However as shown in and described above in some instances economic liability for inventory units may begin some time after receipt of those units depending on the payment terms of the supplier. Thus in one embodiment manager may determine the date economic liability began for a particular unit of an item e.g. referencing a payment date reflected in inventory cost database or purchasing records database and determine the duration of economic costs for that particular unit from the date of assumed liability. The accrued economic cost to date for each unit of items is then calculated block . For example in one embodiment manager may be configured to apply economic cost parameters e.g. interest rates as reflected in modeling parameters to determine economic costs appropriate to particular items and then accumulate those costs for units of those particular items according to their respective economic cost durations. It is noted that in some embodiments economic costs may be assessed on storage and other costs associated with receiving and holding a unit of an item in addition to the price paid for that unit. Also in some embodiments it is contemplated that economic and storage costs may be determined concurrently.

Total accrued holding cost to date for each unit of items is then determined block . In some embodiments accrued holding cost may simply be the sum of storage and economic costs that may be determined as described above while in other embodiments other costs or factors may be accounted for in determining the accrued holding cost.

An estimated or expected date of sale or other type of revenue transaction is then forecast for each unit of items being analyzed block . In some embodiments forecast service may be configured to directly determine an estimated sale date for each unit of items . Alternatively in some embodiments manager may determine an estimated sale date for a unit of an item indirectly from a forecast of sales volume for that item . For example manager may provide an identifier of an item to forecast service and request a forecast of sales volume for the identified item . Responsively forecast service may provide a sales volume forecast on a daily weekly or other time basis which manager may then translate into unit dates of sale.

For example in one embodiment forecast service may be configured to provide a six week sales volume forecast for a given item . Continuing the example on a given date of a requested forecast for given item forecast service may predict that at the end of weeks through the number of units of given item sold during each week will be 1 2 2 1 0 and 0 respectively. Suppose that manager requests the sales forecast on a date of e.g. 10 18 at which time ten units of given item are on hand. Manager may then assign an expected sale date of 10 25 to a first unit and expected sale dates of 11 1 11 1 11 8 11 8 and 11 15 to the second through sixth units respectively. In some embodiments manager may assign expected sale dates starting with the oldest units first while in other embodiments a different assignment order may be employed. For the seventh through tenth units of given item for which no sales are forecast during the current six week forecast window in one embodiment manager may assign an estimated sale date corresponding to the end of the forecast window e.g. 11 29 . Alternatively manager may assign an earlier or later date for example depending on an optimistic or pessimistic forecast bias. Such a bias may variously be reflected within system as a modeling parameter or may be returned by forecast service as an indication of model confidence or other qualifying result.

Total costs of holding each unit of items until its corresponding estimated sale date are then determined block . For example manager may be configured to project storage and economic costs associated with holding a particular unit of given item until its estimated sale date in a manner similar to calculating storage and economic costs that have actually accrued to date for the particular unit as described above. In one embodiment total costs of holding a unit of an item until its corresponding estimated sale date may include storage and economic costs as well as initial costs paid for the unit itself. For example initial unit costs may include the price paid to a supplier for the unit as well as transportation and receiving costs. In some embodiments initial unit costs may be determined net of rebates or other initial cost adjustments that may include for example vendor funded or manufacturer funded marketing or promotional fees price protection adjustments etc.

For each unit of items an estimated sale price or revenue as of each unit s respective estimated sale date is determined block . For example manager may be configured to provide an identifier of an item along with a forecasted sale date to pricing service . Responsively pricing service may be configured to estimate the sale price of identified item on the supplied date. Alternatively in some embodiments pricing service may be configured to provide a sale price forecast over a window of time in a manner similar to the sales volume forecast that may be provided by forecast service as described above. Manager may be configured in one embodiment to request an estimated sale price for a unit after a specific estimated sale date has been assigned to that unit in a serial fashion. Alternatively manager may concurrently request a sales volume forecast and a price trend forecast and assign estimate sale dates and prices to a group of units in the same step such as block described above. As noted above future pricing and future volume may be interdependent variables. Consequently in some embodiments several iterations of estimation of future sale dates and future pricing e.g. blocks with mutual feedback of results may be performed. For example a fixed number of iterations may be performed or iteration may continue until estimated future pricing and volume are reasonably stable e.g. until both models converge .

An expected margin or profitability of each unit of items is then determined block . For example in one embodiment manager may be configured to compare the estimated sale price of a unit of a given item as of the unit s estimated date of sale against the total cost of holding the unit from the time it was acquired until the estimated date of sale such as by subtracting the total cost from the estimated sale price. In some embodiments manager may perform a similar comparison as of the current date using a current sale price for the unit and excluding holding costs beyond the current date.

Individual units of items are then categorized according to their respective expected profitability block . For example if at any given time the expected sale price for a unit of an item does not exceed the total cost of the unit at that time the unit may be unprofitable. In one embodiment manager may be configured to determine which of several categories applies to a particular unit of a given item . For example a particular unit may be expected to be profitable as of its estimated date of sale e.g. its expected price exceeds its total cost . Alternatively the particular unit might be currently profitable e.g. using current pricing and costs to date but may be forecast to be unprofitable as of its estimated date of sale. That is the particular unit may be at risk of becoming unprofitable. Finally the particular unit may be currently unprofitable. For example its holding costs to date and or declining sale price may have eroded its profit margin. Other categories are possible and contemplated. In one embodiment items at risk of becoming unprofitable may be further categorized according to the primary source of the risk. For example a given item may be at risk because it has relatively little initial margin at the time of acquisition thus being more susceptible to holding costs because its accrued holding costs to date are large relative to current margin because future expected holding costs are expected to be large as described above or for other reasons. In some embodiments such risk categories may be reported separately for further analysis.

In some embodiments other profitability categories may apply to a given unit of items . For example a minimum positive threshold value of profitability may be specified for a given item in one embodiment such that a unit of given item may be deemed unprofitable or at risk of becoming unprofitable if its expected sale price does not provide the required threshold of profitability even if some positive margin is expected. Such a threshold may be used to offset risk in forecasting sales or pricing behavior for example. Alternatively negative profitability threshold values may be implemented for certain items for example if a small or even significant loss on certain units is acceptable for other business reasons e.g. by using such units as loss leaders to increase sales of other items . In various embodiments profitability threshold values may be expressed as fixed dollar amounts percentages of original unit cost percentages of current or estimated total unit cost or other suitable representations.

Generated inventory metrics are then stored for further analysis block . For example manager may be configured to store estimated sale date pricing and margin information as well as unit categorization information within inventory metrics database . In some embodiments it is contemplated that such metrics may be stored as they are generated.

It is noted that in one embodiment the above described methodology may be implemented to determine expected profitability of items at the level of individual units of items . That is rather than treating all units of a given item as a group and deriving an overall profit or loss expectation for the group individual units may be identified as potentially profitable or unprofitable. Referring to the example given above of the ten units of given item analyzed the first unit may be currently unprofitable e.g. owing to accrued costs due to being the oldest unit on hand the second through sixth units forecast to be sold during weeks ending 11 1 11 8 and 11 15 may be expected to be profitable and the remaining units not forecast to sell within the current forecast horizon may be at risk of becoming unprofitable.

Such individual unit level granularity of profitability analysis may enable unit level action to be taken to address potential profitability issues. In one embodiment manager may be configured to notify disposition service regarding the expected profitability of various units of items . For example manager may indicated to disposition service that a certain number of units of a given item are determined to be unprofitable or at risk of becoming unprofitable. As described in greater detail below in conjunction with the descriptions of disposition service may be configured to individually determine a disposition for the indicated units dependent upon their expected profitability. For example units may be liquidated or sold via channels other than the normal sales channel through fulfillment center .

It is contemplated that numerous other inventory metrics may be determined from data extracted from data sources and services within inventory management system . For example in various embodiments manager may be configured to determine and report the rate at which various items are disposed of via disposition service the status of the disposition process for each of various items performance of items against profitability expectations and other types of metrics.

In some embodiments manager may be configured to analyze expected profitability of all items stored within a fulfillment center on a recurring basis such as daily weekly or at other regular or irregular intervals. For example in one embodiment manager may be configured to perform an analysis of all inventory on a weekly basis to store the resulting metrics within inventory metrics database and to notify disposition service of the possibly or actually impaired profitability of certain units of items . In other embodiments expected profitability of different items may be analyzed at different times and possibly triggered by different events. For example in one embodiment ordering or receiving of certain items may trigger an analysis of expected profitability of units of those items . It is also contemplated that in some embodiments profitability analysis may not occur with greater frequency than is supported by the resolution or granularity of the models used in the analysis such as the models employed by forecast service and or pricing service . For example if sales activity is forecast with weekly or biweekly granularity analyzing profitability more frequently than weekly or biweekly may not substantially improve the quality of the analysis.

While in one embodiment manager may be configured to autonomously perform an expected profitability analysis and to notify disposition service dependent upon the analysis in some embodiments the metrics extracted and generated by manager may be available for further analysis by users. In some embodiments clients may be configured to access inventory metrics database for example to retrieve reports on the current status of inventory items or to request that a new analysis be performed. Clients in various embodiments may include applications web browsers or other types of interfaces through which users may interact with inventory metrics database . In some embodiments clients may be configured to access other elements of inventory management system either directly or via manager . For example in one embodiment a client may be configured to retrieve of modify the contents of purchasing records such as to initiate or approve a purchase order transaction. Similarly a client may be configured to access inventory cost database to record the arrival or departure of various items .

Clients may be configured to perform inventory optimization analyses using the various inventory metrics available through database in various embodiments. For example clients may be configured to identify underperforming items such as items that are marginally or erratically profitable. Additionally clients may be configured to analyze the overall mix of items stored within fulfillment center for example to ascertain whether substituting certain items having particular storage or cost characteristics for other items might improve overall profitability or usage of inventory storage resources e.g. by replacing large items with smaller items having equal or better expected profitability .

In some embodiments inventory management system may be implemented by a single enterprise or business such as a retail merchant conducting electronic or physical commerce for the management and analysis of its own inventory items . However in other embodiments different opportunities may exist for one enterprise to offer inventory management services including the generation and analysis of inventory metrics such as expected profitability to other customers or businesses. For example in one embodiment an enterprise may provision and license a version of inventory management system to other merchants who maintain their own fulfillment infrastructure. Alternatively external merchants that maintain their own fulfillment infrastructure may choose to expose some of their information systems to another enterprise for inventory management services. For example in one embodiment a merchant may maintain its own data sources and or forecast services and may expose these sources and services to external inventory management logic such as the analysis algorithms implemented via manager . In one such embodiment some elements of inventory management system may be implemented at a client site e.g. many of the data sources and services while other elements may be implemented at a host site of the enterprise providing inventory management services. Such services may be provided via any of a number of interfaces and financial arrangements. For example a client may receive inventory management services via web services interface or via another type of interface on a pay per use subscription or licensed basis.

Numerous other inventory management services arrangements are possible and contemplated. For example in one embodiment a host enterprise may offer fulfillment services as well as inventory management services to other merchants or organizations that choose not to build their own fulfillment infrastructure. In such an embodiment inventory not owned by the host enterprise may share various aspects of the receiving storage and packing functions of fulfillment center . In some such embodiments the host enterprise may offer to track and manage inventory metrics and to provide fulfillment services for externally owned inventory items alongside host owned inventory items and to provide inventory metrics services to outside merchants such as via web services interface or another type of interface. In some embodiments certain merchants may maintain their own e commerce or other customer interfaces while delegating order fulfillment and inventory management to the host enterprise. Other merchants may choose to use customer interfaces provided by the host enterprise such as web based or physical storefronts in addition to host provided order fulfillment and inventory management services.

More generally it is contemplated that the methods and techniques for determining and analyzing inventory metrics as described above as well as inventory disposition as described below need not be restricted to inventory items that are owned or in the physical possession of an enterprise. Generally speaking inventory items for which inventory metrics may be determined may encompass items at any point within a supply chain between a producer and a consumer. That is in some embodiments the concept of inventory may be virtualized or extended beyond the physical confines of a single inventory storage facility such as a fulfillment center to include a number of different types or categories of inventory. For example in some embodiments inventory items may include forward deployed inventory such as inventory held in facilities e.g. shipping hubs of common carriers relatively close to customers or recipients. Inventory items may also include items that are in transit from a supplier to a customer or between facilities. In some embodiments inventory items may also include items not actually owned or ordered by an enterprise but which are items held in reserve by a supplier on behalf of the enterprise such as specially allocated items or items for which an enterprise holds an option to purchase under specified terms. It is contemplated that in some embodiments inventory items that fall into any of these extended categories may have acquisition and holding costs unique to each particular category which costs may be measured and attributed to individual items in a manner similar to that described above.

In many embodiments units of an inventory item may typically leave fulfillment center through a normal sales or fulfillment channel for example in response to an actual or expected customer order. However not all units of inventory items may be sold or disposed of through a typical channel. For example some units may be damaged upon receipt from a supplier or at some point during storage within fulfillment center and consequently not sellable as new condition merchandise. Also as described above in some embodiments certain units of particular items may be identified as at risk of or actually failing to meet profitability volume or other expectations even though such units may otherwise be sellable as new. For these or other reasons in one embodiment units of items may be disposed of through one or more disposition channels.

Numerous possible channels for disposing of inventory may exist in some embodiments but not all possible channels may be equally applicable or desirable for different types of items . illustrates one embodiment of a disposition service that may be configured to evaluate each of a number of disposition channels with respect to a given item and to select a particular disposition channel through which to dispose of the given item . In the illustrated embodiment disposition service includes a set of disposition policies configured to interact with disposition logic . Further disposition service may be configured to interact with a number of disposition channels .

In the illustrated embodiment disposition service may be triggered to evaluate and select a particular disposition channel for a unit of a given item in response to detecting a disposition event associated with given item . Generally speaking a disposition event may include any exceptional event associated with an item indicative of the possibility that units of the item may be candidates for disposal through alternative channels. For example a disposition event may include a message or notice that identifies the nature of the event as well as the item or items to which the event applies. In various embodiments a disposition event may be communicated to disposition service via any suitable type of interface such as a web services interface or a custom application programming interface API .

In one embodiment a disposition event may include a notification from inventory management system e.g. via manager that units of a particular item have unacceptable expected profitability or that the inventory mix within fulfillment center is being shifted to deemphasize particular item for example. A disposition event may also include item grading events which in one embodiment may be indicative that one or more units of particular item has been determined to be in a condition or grade other than the default condition e.g. new condition . For example an item grading event may occur in response to detecting that a unit of an item is damaged such as upon receiving stocking or picking the unit. In various embodiments a disposition event may occur in response to an item grading event. For example a disposition event may be triggered upon initiation or completion of item grading. In some embodiments users may manually initiate disposition events for example in response to a decision to discontinue or liquidate an item . Other types of disposition events may also serve as triggers to disposition service . For example a supplier or manufacturer may initiate a recall of an item and may notify clients of such a recall via an appropriate disposition event.

Generally speaking a disposition channel may correspond to any suitable method technique or relationship through which a unit of an item may be disposed of. In the illustrated embodiment numerous different disposition channels may be provided which may vary in terms of the potential value received for disposition of an item. In one embodiment disposing of a unit of an item via return to vendor channel may include arranging to deliver the unit to its supplier or a designee of the supplier in exchange for a credit or refund of all or a portion of the price paid for the unit. Liquidating the unit via channel may in one embodiment include selling or consigning the unit to a third party liquidator. In various embodiments the liquidation price may be prearranged with the liquidator to be a flat price or percentage of a retail or wholesale price. Alternatively a liquidator may bid on a specific lot of units as they become available. In some embodiments liquidation may present a quick or convenient option for item disposition at the expense of value received as described in greater detail below.

In some embodiments depending on the condition of the item being disposed of alternatives to liquidation may include the bulk sales and institutional channels . For example individuals organizations or institutions may enter into arrangements with a merchant to purchase large quantities of items in various conditions and at various levels of discounting for resale or for institutional use.

For various business reasons a merchant may prefer to attempt to dispose of certain items itself rather than to liquidate or sell through bulk or institutional channels. For example the merchant may ultimately obtain a higher price for units of some items by discounting or promoting them. In one embodiment disposing of units of an item through promotional channel may include applying a discount or promotional offer to those units such as free shipping favorable payment terms or discounted bundling with other merchandise. In other embodiments disposing of an item through promotional channel may include using item as a loss leader or giving it to a customer without charge for example as an inducement to buy another item e.g. buy item X get item Y free or to build customer goodwill by rewarding loyal customers. In one embodiment the value received for a given item disposed of via promotional channel may simply be the sales price net of discounts or other offers. However in some embodiments an economic value may be associated with generating customer goodwill or potentiating sales of other items through the use of promotions. Such intangible or indirect value may be quantified and added to the tangible value received for a given item disposed of via promotional channel

A merchant may also attempt to avoid externally liquidating items by disposing of them via an alternative channel associated directly with the merchant. For example the merchant may operate outlet or clearance facilities affiliated with but separate from its primary sales facilities. In one embodiment disposing of units of an item through marketplace channel may include offering them for sale through a secondary marketplace affiliated with the merchant. For example a merchant engaging in electronic commerce e commerce may maintain a primary e commerce portal e.g. a website including a catalog listing new items available for purchase from the merchant. The merchant may also provide a separate marketplace listing alternatives to the new items offered via its primary catalog such as used or damaged versions of items or new items available through other sellers affiliated with the merchant such as sellers contracting with the merchant for fulfillment and or inventory management services as described above for example . In some embodiments marketplace channel may be directly linked with a primary e commerce portal. For example an e commerce website may be configured to list a given item in new condition and available directly from the merchant on a respective catalog page of the website. Additionally the merchant may provide listings of alternate sources of the given item in new used or damaged condition on the same catalog page or on a web page linked to the catalog page. Generally speaking a listing may encompass any type of presentation of an available item. For example a listing may include a brief enumeration of item details along with a link to a page including more item information and or purchase information.

In some embodiments marketplace channel may provide a venue for commerce that benefits from association with a merchant hosting the channel but which may have different business policies or characteristics relative to a merchant s primary sales channel s . For example different warranty return or shipping policies may apply to items sold through marketplace channel versus a primary catalog sales channel. Also in some instances although a merchant may list various items as available for purchase through marketplace channel the merchant may or may not actually own or have possession of some of the listed items . For example in one embodiment a merchant may sell a lot of underperforming items e.g. items identified as potentially or actually unprofitable as described above to another party who elects to offer them for sale through marketplace channel . The merchant may retain actual possession of the items within fulfillment center and handle fulfillment services for those items on behalf of the other party as they are sold however financial liability for the items may rest with the other party. In other embodiments third parties may offer items in their own possession for sale through marketplace channel . In some such embodiments the merchant hosting marketplace channel may process order entry and or payment for such items while the third parties may handle order fulfillment. In some embodiments the merchant may apply its own sales policies such as satisfaction guarantees or return policies to items sold by third parties through marketplace channel

In some instances a unit of an item may not be a candidate for disposition via the channels described above. For example the unit may be too damaged or depreciated to expect a reasonable value from sale through any channel. In some embodiments items that are not candidates for other disposition channels may be donated e.g. to charities schools etc. via donation channel or destroyed via channel . It is noted that in some embodiments value may still be associated with disposition of an item even in the absence of a sale. For example tax benefits may be available for donated or damaged items . Also donated items may generate intangible goodwill value and damaged items selected for destruction may have salvage value e.g. for wood pulp scrap metal recyclable plastic etc. .

In some embodiments certain items may be disposed of through an auction via an auction channel . Additionally rather than a sale or similar nonrecurring transaction in some embodiments disposition of items may include a possibly recurring lease or rental transaction e.g. via a lease rental channel . For example a video or DVD having damaged retail packaging may in some embodiments be suitable for repackaging as a rental unit. Other disposition channels are possible and contemplated and are represented generically by the other channel

Further in some instances disposition service may determine that a unit of an item for which a disposition event has been detected should be retained in inventory. For example retention may be an option if no other desirable disposition option exists at the time the disposition event occurred but a merchant wishes to reevaluate disposition options at a later time. Alternatively a merchant may determine that some items that are candidates for some kind of disposition may be retained for future promotional purposes e.g. sold as loss leaders or offered as gifts to certain customers to build goodwill but may not immediately enter promotional channel . For example units of certain items may be retained until a seasonal promotion begins market conditions improve etc. The option to retain an item is illustrated as retention channel although in some embodiments the decision to retain units of an item may be implemented as taking no action with respect to those units e.g. leaving them in inventory . It is noted that in some instances units of an item may be retained as inventory even though they may be actually or potentially unprofitable. Likewise in some instances units of an item may be disposed of through one or more of channels even though they may be expected to be profitable for example due to a decision to reposition inventory discontinue certain business lines etc. . That is although a determination regarding profitability may in some cases be a sufficient condition to trigger disposition or retention it need not be a necessary condition.

It is contemplated that in some embodiments some of the above described channels may be omitted or additional channels may be provided. Additionally it is contemplated that in some embodiments various channels may be dynamically added or deleted for example as supplier or liquidator relationships change or as new disposition strategies are developed. Further in some embodiments a normal sales or fulfillment channel e.g. a retail channel may be considered as one of disposition channels for the purposes of analysis. In one such embodiment an inventory item may always be associated with one of channels but items may be redirected to different channels depending on various events. For example an item may be associated with a normal or default channel when it is initially placed in inventory. Such an item may be redirected to a different channel in response to a disposition event corresponding to that item such as detected damage requiring evaluation or grading a profitability event triggered by inventory management system or another type of event.

Not all disposition channels may be valid channels for disposing of a unit of a given item depending on the properties of the given item or the condition of the unit. For example some manufacturers will not allow their brands to be discounted or sold through secondary channels which may disqualify promotional channel and or marketplace channel from being valid disposition options for units of such items . Similarly some suppliers or liquidators may not accept units of items that are not in new or repairable condition which may disqualify return to vendor channel or liquidation channel from being disposition options for units in poor condition. In one embodiment disposition policies may be configured to store and evaluate disposition policies that may apply to items . For example when a disposition event for a unit of an item is detected disposition policies may determine what channels are valid disposition options for the unit given relevant details about the type and condition of the unit.

In response to a detected disposition event for one or more units of a given item in one embodiment disposition logic may be configured to evaluate the disposition channels that are valid for the units e.g. as determined by the application of disposition policies and may select a particular channel through which to dispose of one or more units. One embodiment of a method of disposing of units of items that may be implemented by disposition service is illustrated in . Referring collectively to operation begins in block where a disposition event is detected. For example in one embodiment disposition service may detect a profitability event generated by inventory management system and conveyed via manager an item grading event generated by a fulfillment center associate who detects a damaged unit of an item or another type of disposition event. As noted above in some embodiments a disposition event may identify the type of item as well as the condition of the particular unit s to which the event corresponds.

In response to the disposition event valid disposition channels for the type and condition of the unit s corresponding to the event are determined block . For example disposition policies may be configured to take into account item specific and or condition specific contingencies that may apply to various channels as described above. In some embodiments a default channel such as e.g. retention channel may be defined such that at least one valid disposition channel exists for a given unit.

The valid disposition channels are then prioritized according to channel selection criteria block . For example in one embodiment disposition logic may be configured to maximize the value received for disposing of the unit s such as by ranking the valid disposition channels by the amount of value recoverable through each channel . In some instances the expected recovery value from a channel may be predetermined for a given item and or unit condition. For example a vendor or supplier may as a matter of policy credit all or a fixed portion of the price paid for the item when a unit of that item is returned via return to vendor channel . Similarly in some cases a liquidator may maintain a fixed or standing bid to acquire certain items via liquidation channel . In other instances the expected recovery value from a channel may be dependent upon market factors. For example attempts to dispose of units of an item via marketplace channel may depend upon the willingness of one or more customers to pay the price listed. More details about pricing items for disposition through marketplace channel are given below. As noted above in some embodiments intangible or indirect value such as customer goodwill tax benefits salvage value etc. may be taken into account in determining the expected recovery value from a given channel .

In some embodiments the criteria by which channels are evaluated and compared may be dynamic rather than static. For example some channels such as e.g. liquidation channel may bid different prices for units of items at different times or depending on the quantity of units available at a given time. Correspondingly in some embodiments it is contemplated that some or all of channels may include an API or interactive service interface such as a web services interface through which the channel may be notified by disposition service of available units of items and may respond with a bid or other information. For example in one embodiment disposition logic may be configured to query valid disposition channels such as by issuing a web services request or other type of bid request indicating the type quantity condition and or other pertinent details of available units of a given item to an interface associated with each valid disposition channel . Each valid disposition channel may then determine whether to bid on some all or none of the indicated units and respond to the request accordingly e.g. with a bid price and quantity purchase terms etc. Disposition logic may then evaluate the resulting bids and prioritize channels according to the evaluation.

It is contemplated that in other embodiments the valid disposition channels may be prioritized according to criteria in addition to or other than maximizing recoverable value from channels . For example in some embodiments disposition logic may take into account the quantity of items corresponding to the disposition event and the likelihood of disposing of most or all of that quantity via some combination of channels . That is the capacity of a given channel to handle various numbers of units of an item may be accounted for when prioritizing and selecting disposition channels . In some instances a lower average recoverable value from a particular channel may be outweighed by a larger channel capacity particularly in situations where a substantial number of units are to be disposed of. In some embodiments different units of a given item may be disposed of through different channels .

Additionally in some embodiments disposition logic may apply a positive or negative bias to certain channels . For example in one embodiment a merchant may as a matter of policy prefer to dispose of some or all items through a channel associated with the merchant s brand market presence e commerce portal etc. in order to maximize customer impressions and associations with the merchant. Such a merchant may prefer that items be disposed of through marketplace channel versus liquidation channel for example. Thus in some embodiments disposition logic may implement a positive bias towards marketplace channel a negative bias towards liquidation channel or both. Such a bias may be implemented for example by adding a bias value to or subtracting it from the expected recovery value or through any other suitable technique. It is noted that in some instances a negatively biased channel may still rank higher than a positively biased channel for example if the expected recovery value from the negatively biased channel significantly exceeds the cost associated with the negative bias. Also it is noted that in some embodiments biases may be internal to disposition service . That is channels need not be aware of how they are biased relative to each other.

Once valid disposition channels have been prioritized according to the implemented prioritization scheme taking into account any relevant biases a particular channel is selected block . For example in one embodiment the highest ranking channel may be selected. In other embodiments a different channel may be selected for example if a user manually overrides the highest ranking channel . Also in some embodiments multiple different channels may be selected. For example one channel may not be able to accommodate all units of a given item identified for disposal or disposition logic may be configured to attempt to diversify recovery of costs through a combination of channels .

Finally the unit s corresponding to the disposition event are disposed via the selected channel or channels block . For example the unit s may be physically conveyed to a supplier liquidator or other entity or they may be held in inventory and listed via a sales channel such as marketplace channel

In some embodiments it is contemplated that disposition service may be configured to operate in a mode in which disposition options for a unit of an item are evaluated but action to dispose of such a unit e.g. block of may not actually be taken. Such a mode of operation may be referred to as a simulation mode an evaluation mode or a speculative mode of operation of disposition service .

For example in some instances a disposition event may occur with respect to a particular unit of a given item due to damage. However it might require significant cost e.g. in term of time effort equipment supplies etc. to grade the particular unit in order to definitively determine its condition e.g. cosmetically vs. functionally damaged . For example a complex electronic device might require substantial testing to ascertain its level of operability. In some instances such as with expensive or complex items the cost of effort needed to ready a damaged unit for disposition through certain channels by testing repairing refurbishing etc. may not compare favorably with the value expected from those channels. For example the cost to repair a damaged unit may exceed the expected value of selling the repaired unit.

Correspondingly in one embodiment disposition service may be configured to evaluate disposition options for a unit of a given item before the condition of that unit is determined. Specifically in one embodiment disposition logic may evaluate channels in view of disposition policies to identify and present one or several valid disposition options. An agent external to disposition service such as an employee within fulfillment center or an external client interacting through web services interface may then determine whether to proceed to evaluate the condition of the unit given the presented options. For example disposition policies may restrict the channels available for disposition of certain items such that a damaged unit of a particular brand or type of item may not be resold to a consumer. In such a case disposition service may evaluate any remaining valid channels such as the potential credit from return to vendor channel potential salvage or scrap value etc.

When operating in a simulation mode such as described above disposition service may have incomplete information regarding a unit of an item . For example as described above disposition service may lack detailed information about the current condition of the unit or whether the unit may feasibly be restored to a particular condition. Correspondingly in a simulation mode disposition service may in various embodiments be configured to evaluate disposition options for the unit under a fixed assumption about the condition of the unit e.g. a worst case or best case assumption or may perform multiple different evaluations according to multiple different possible conditions. For example disposition options and corresponding expected recoverable values may vary depending on whether a unit is unsalvageable completely repairable or somewhere in between. Disposition service may evaluate and present disposition options for each of several possible or likely unit conditions which may then be used to determine how to proceed with a particular unit e.g. to grade its condition or to dispose of it as is .

It is noted that when operating in a simulation mode disposition service may not actually change any persistent internal state or the state of channels . That is in such a mode disposition service may not actually cause disposition actions to be taken such as listing an item for sale via marketplace channel notifying a liquidator of an item to consign etc. . Additionally in such a mode disposition service may not modify the state of other units of items within channels . For example in some instances actually attempting to dispose of a large number of units of an item may alter the market for those units. However in one embodiment the actions of disposition service in a simulation mode of operation may be transparent with respect to channels .

In some embodiments a simulation mode of disposition service may be offered by an enterprise to external merchants or partners as a service such as a web service via web services interface in a manner similar to inventory metrics generation and analysis as described above. In some such embodiments an external partner or merchant may supply its own set of disposition policies and channels and may rely on disposition service solely for evaluation and recommendation. In other embodiments the service received by an external partner or merchant may encompass both evaluation and execution of disposition either through channels defined by the partner or merchant through channels presented by the enterprise providing the service or a combination.

As described above in some embodiments marketplace channel may be a valid channel through which to dispose of units of an item . Further in some embodiments disposition service may be configured to bias marketplace channel in favor of other disposition channels . For example a merchant may prefer to make a direct customer impression i.e. a sale associated directly with the merchant via marketplace channel as opposed to liquidating merchandise for others to sell. Also in many cases a better price may be obtained by selling directly to consumers via marketplace channel versus selling items in quantity to a liquidator or other intermediate party.

However sales through marketplace channel may present additional challenges when evaluating disposition channels to select a particular channel through which to dispose of units of a given item . For example as described above the expected recovery value for a particular unit from a given channel may be a primary input in the ranking of channels in some embodiments. However the expected recovery value from marketplace channel may be difficult to quantify. For example numerous different sellers may be selling units of given item in varying conditions via marketplace channel for different prices. If a unit is not priced appropriately when listed within marketplace channel it may sell for too little thus sacrificing potential recovery value or it may not sell at all depending on competing listings.

In the embodiment illustrated in disposition service may be configured to implement a marketplace pricing engine in addition to disposition policies and disposition logic . Marketplace pricing engine or simply engine may be configured to provide pricing information to disposition logic for units of a given item taking into account a number of factors such as pricing for existing and historical listings within marketplace channel for given item or similar items other historical sales and or shopping information associated with given item the reputation or rating of various competing sellers listing given item via marketplace channel the supply of given item and or other factors.

One embodiment of a method of operation of an embodiment of disposition service that includes marketplace pricing engine is illustrated in . Referring collectively to operation begins in block where a disposition event for one or more units of a given item is detected such as described above in conjunction with the descriptions of . Once a disposition event is detected it is evaluated to determine whether marketplace channel is a valid disposition channel for the indicated units block . For example disposition policies may indicate that certain types or conditions of items are not valid candidates for sale through marketplace channel

If marketplace channel is not a valid disposition channel for the indicated units in the illustrated embodiment execution may proceed from block without consulting marketplace pricing engine . However in some embodiments the following marketplace pricing steps may still be evaluated for informational purposes e.g. to provide feedback to a user who may choose to manually override disposition policies and list the unit via marketplace channel anyways.

If marketplace channel is a valid disposition channel or in embodiments where marketplace pricing is evaluated regardless of the validity of marketplace channel for an item pricing analysis begins in block where competitive listings for the given item are identified. For example in one embodiment marketplace pricing engine may search through listings of all items offered for sale via marketplace channel in order to identify listings matching the given item where the listing offers given item in at least the condition given for the unit s corresponding to the disposition event. That is if the disposition event indicates that the unit s are in new condition engine may only consider listings for new units of given item while if the disposition event indicates that the unit s are in good condition i.e. less than new engine may consider listings for both good condition and new units of given item . If no listings are found that match the specified item criteria in some embodiments engine may attempt to identify listings for similar items or units of the given item in other conditions. However any listings identified in this case may be flagged as being potentially unreliable for pricing purposes.

Historical data corresponding to the given item is also identified block . For example in one embodiment engine may be configured to analyze past sales history of units of the given item through marketplace channel or through other channels including the merchant s primary sales channel . Such sales history may include the sale price of the given item as well as other information pertinent to the sale including data regarding the reputation or ranking of a third party seller duration of a listing prior to sale condition of the given item for a particular listing any price adjustments that occurred during the course of the listing etc. In some embodiments historical data may also include customer shopping data not necessarily correlated with a sale. For example a merchant may collect and store details regarding how users interact with its e commerce portal such as the specific catalog items a user views how much time users spend viewing certain items or pages and other shopping related data. In some embodiments engine may be configured to consult customer shopping data relevant to the given item e.g. to ascertain its historical level of customer interest. In some embodiments engine may only identify historical data corresponding to given item such as sale or shopping data if no marketplace listings for the given item were identified in the previous step while in other embodiments engine may use historical data in conjunction with current marketplace listings to qualify pricing decisions.

An expected price range for the unit s of given item corresponding to the detected disposition event is then determined dependent upon the identified marketplace listings and or historical data block . For example in one embodiment engine may be configured to determine a minimum expected price for the unit s as the lowest priced marketplace listing for the given item in comparable or better condition less a certain amount or percentage e.g. one penny or 1 lower than the lowest comparable price . Correspondingly in one embodiment the maximum expected price may be determined from the highest price listing for the given item . In some embodiments the structure of marketplace channel may be taken into account when determining the expected price range. For example in one embodiment marketplace channel may be configured to display a fixed number of listings for the given item on one web page. In such an embodiment the maximum expected price may be determined as the maximum price such that the unit s will be listed on a given page of listings. For example if engine is configured to attempt to list the unit s on the first page of listings that includes N listings the maximum expected price may be determined as the average of the Nth and N 1 th listings on the first page or alternatively as a certain amount below the Nth listing.

The expected price range may be determined according to a more sophisticated analysis of the identified marketplace listings and or historical data in some embodiments. Simply determining the minimum expected price as some amount less than the lowest price current listing as described above may enable the unit s to sell relatively quickly. However in some instances the lowest price current listing may not be an accurate indicator of the minimum fair marketplace value of given item . For example a seller may list a unit of given item for an artificially deflated price to attract customer attention or to attempt to earn revenue from shipping or processing fees. In some such instances a higher sales price may be achieved if a listing is maintained over a period of time. For example lower priced listings may clear marketplace channel over time enabling higher priced listings to sell. Consequently in some embodiments determination of the minimum expected price for the unit s may take into account a desired time interval over which the unit s are expected to sell. For example engine may take both current listings and historical sales data into account to determine a minimum expected price for which a unit of given item has a certain likelihood e.g. a probability percentage of selling during a specified interval of time e.g. a number of weeks months etc. .

In some embodiments if there are no relevant current marketplace listings for given item and if insufficient historical data exists to guide pricing the expected price range for the unit s of given item may be determined according to default values. For example in one embodiment disposition policies may store default minimum and maximum pricing guidelines such as percentage discounts off of a new catalog price for items in various different conditions. Also it is contemplated that in some embodiments a single expected price rather than a range of prices may be determined. For example in some embodiments only the minimum or maximum expected price may be determined or the two may be averaged to produce a single price. In some embodiments before default values are used to determine expected pricing for a given item available historical data for related items may be considered. For example historical data for a different model or version of given item such as a different binding of a book a different format of a videotape or DVD etc. or for a different item in the same general product class as given item may be considered.

The expected price range for the unit s is then optionally adjusted according to any relevant criteria block . For example in one embodiment sellers listing items within marketplace channel may have corresponding ratings or rankings such as satisfaction or reliability ratings based on customer feedback. In such an embodiment engine may be configured to take into account seller rating in determining the expected price range e.g. by increasing a minimum or maximum expected price if competing sellers are poorly rated. Adjustments may also take into account market factors such as the popularity of given item e.g. as indicated by corresponding historical sales or shopping data sales velocity measures etc. the number of listings for the given item and or the number of units of the given item corresponding to the detected disposition event. For example engine may be configured to raise the expected price range for price popular or scarce items or to lower it for slow moving or glutted items .

In some embodiments engine may be configured to take into account data external to marketplace channel such as merchant planning and purchasing forecasts. For example in one embodiment engine may be configured to consult with forecast service and or pricing service of inventory management system to ascertain sales forecasts and inventory acquisition plans for new units of given item and to accordingly adjust the expected price range for the units subject to disposition.

All valid channels are then evaluated taking the expected price range determined for marketplace channel into account if that channel is valid block . For example disposition logic may be configured to compare the expected price range corresponding to marketplace channel to the expected recovery value associated with other channels e.g. return to vendor channel liquidation channel . In one embodiment marketplace channel may be ranked above another channel in a value based ranking if some price in the expected price range associated with marketplace channel exceeds the expected recovery value associated with the other channel . For example if a price available from a liquidator is greater than the minimum expected price but less than the maximum expected price marketplace channel may rank higher than liquidation channel

A particular channel or channels is then selected for disposition of the unit s of the given item block . In some embodiments disposition policies may factor into channel selection in a manner similar to that described above such that the highest ranked channel by expected recovery value may not necessarily be the selected channel. In some embodiments disposition logic may be configured to take into account risk associated with expected recovery value. For example in one embodiment if a supplier offers a no questions asked full credit return policy for certain items the return to vendor channel may be selected even if the maximum expected price from marketplace channel is greater than the available vendor credit. In such an instance returning items to the supplier may be the lower risk option as receiving the higher price from marketplace channel requires that the marketplace listing precipitate an actual sale.

In some embodiments information gained and decisions made during the evaluation and selection of a particular disposition channel may have an impact on modeling decisions that may have originally generated the disposition event. For example a disposition event may have occurred as a result of manager identifying poor expected profitability for certain units of an item on the basis of forecast sales and or pricing trends. Actual evaluation of channels by disposition service may provide additional information that impacts original forecasts. For example the existence of many or few listings of an item on marketplace channel may be relevant supply vs. demand feedback for forecast service or pricing service . Similarly the decision to dispose of large quantities of one item via one or more of channels may impact future sales projections for that item or related items . For example listing a large quantity of slightly damaged units of an item via marketplace channel may negatively impact near term demand for new units of that item . Consequently in some embodiments disposition service may be configured to provide feedback regarding disposition decisions to inventory management system . Correspondingly in some embodiments inventory management system may be configured to reevaluate modeling assumptions that led to a particular disposition event in light of such feedback before committing to a particular disposition strategy.

Like the inventory management services described above in some embodiments disposition and marketplace pricing services provided by disposition service may be offered by a merchant to partners affiliates or clients. For example in one embodiment disposition service may be accessible to clients via a web services interface either directly or via another system such as inventory management system . Also it is contemplated that in some embodiments disposition service may be configured to track the status of units of items disposed of through various channels . For example units of some items may spend a period of time in a channel such as marketplace channel before their disposition is complete e.g. a sale is concluded . In one embodiment disposition service may be configured to reevaluate and reprice units of items in certain channels after a period of time has elapsed since the initial disposition decision was made. Alternatively disposition service may be configured to notify a user that certain items may be growing stale within a channel . The user may then elect to direct disposition service to reevaluate disposition options for such items including repricing them within their existing channel or selecting a different channel .

It is contemplated that in some embodiments any of the methods or techniques described above may be implemented as program instructions and data capable of being stored or conveyed via a computer accessible medium. Such methods or techniques may include for example and without limitation the functions of manager disposition service or any other element of inventory management system as well as the methods illustrated in and . Such program instructions may be executed to perform a particular computational function such as inventory metric generation and analysis data warehousing and virtualization storage management query and data set analysis query evaluation operating system functionality applications and or any other suitable functions.

One exemplary embodiment of a computer system including computer accessible media is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface . In some embodiments it is contemplated that inventory management system may be implemented using by a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems may be configured to host different portions of inventory management system . For example in one embodiment some data sources or services may be implemented via instances of computer system that are distinct from those instances implementing other data sources or services.

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be a general purpose or embedded processor implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by process . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those described above are shown stored within system memory as code .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems for example. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . A computer accessible medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc that may be included in some embodiments of computer system as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

