---

title: Thiazolopyrimidine PI3K inhibitor compounds and methods of use
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08158626&OS=08158626&RS=08158626
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 08158626
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110113
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 236 317 filed Sep. 23 2008 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 893 059 and claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 974 708 filed on 24 Sep. 2007 all of which are incorporated by reference in entirety.

The invention relates generally to compounds with anti cancer activity and more specifically to compounds which inhibit PI3 kinase activity. The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Phosphatidylinositol is one of a number of phospholipids found in cell membranes. In recent years it has become clear that PI plays an important role in intracellular signal transduction. Cell signaling via 3 phosphorylated phosphoinositides has been implicated in a variety of cellular processes e.g. malignant transformation growth factor signaling inflammation and immunity Rameh et al 1999 J. Biol Chem 274 8347 8350 . The enzyme responsible for generating these phosphorylated signaling products phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase also referred to as PI 3 kinase or PI3K was originally identified as an activity associated with viral oncoproteins and growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases that phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol PI and its phosphorylated derivatives at the 3 hydroxyl of the inositol ring Panayotou et al 1992 Trends Cell Biol 2 358 60 . Phosphoinositide 3 kinases PI3K are lipid kinases that phosphorylate lipids at the 3 hydroxyl residue of an inositol ring Whitman et al 1988 Nature 332 664 . The 3 phosphorylated phospholipids PIP3s generated by PI3 kinases act as second messengers recruiting kinases with lipid binding domains including plekstrin homology PH regions such as Akt and phosphoinositide dependent kinase 1 PDK1 . Binding of Akt to membrane PIP3s causes the translocation of Akt to the plasma membrane bringing Akt into contact with PDK1 which is responsible for activating Akt. The tumor suppressor phosphatase PTEN dephosphorylates PIP3 and therefore acts as a negative regulator of Akt activation. The PI3 kinases Akt and PDK1 are important in the regulation of many cellular processes including cell cycle regulation proliferation survival apoptosis and motility and are significant components of the molecular mechanisms of diseases such as cancer diabetes and immune inflammation Vivanco et al 2002 Nature Rev. Cancer 2 489 Phillips et al 1998 Cancer 83 41 .

The PI3 kinase family comprises at least 15 different enzymes sub classified by structural homology and are divided into 3 classes based on sequence homology and the product formed by enzyme catalysis. The class I PI3 kinases are composed of 2 subunits a 110 kd catalytic subunit and an 85 kd regulatory subunit. The regulatory subunits contain SH2 domains and bind to tyrosine residues phosphorylated by growth factor receptors with a tyrosine kinase activity or oncogene products thereby inducing the PI3K activity of the p110 catalytic subunit which phosphorylates its lipid substrate. Class I PI3 kinases are involved in important signal transduction events downstream of cytokines integrins growth factors and immunoreceptors which suggests that control of this pathway may lead to important therapeutic effects such as modulating cell proliferation and carcinogenesis. Class I PI3Ks can phosphorylate phosphatidylinositol PI phosphatidylinositol 4 phosphate and phosphatidylinositol 4 5 biphosphate PIP2 to produce phosphatidylinositol 3 phosphate PIP phosphatidylinositol 3 4 biphosphate and phosphatidylinositol 3 4 5 triphosphate respectively. Class II PI3Ks phosphorylate PI and phosphatidylinositol 4 phosphate. Class III PI3Ks can only phosphorylate PI.

The initial purification and molecular cloning of PI3 kinase revealed that it was a heterodimer consisting of p85 and p110 subunits Otsu et al 1991 Cell 65 91 104 Hiles et al 1992 Cell 70 419 29 . Since then four distinct Class I PI3Ks have been identified designated PI3K alpha beta delta and gamma each consisting of a distinct 110 kDa catalytic subunit and a regulatory subunit. More specifically three of the catalytic subunits i.e. p110alpha p110 beta and p110 delta each interact with the same regulatory subunit p85 whereas p110 gamma interacts with a distinct regulatory subunit p101. The patterns of expression of each of these PI3Ks in human cells and tissues are also distinct.

The main PI3 kinase isoform in cancer is the Class I PI3 kinase p110 alpha U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 492 U.S. Pat. No. 5 846 824 U.S. Pat. No. 6 274 327 . Other isoforms are implicated in cardiovascular and immune inflammatory disease Workman P 2004 Inhibiting the phosphoinositide 3 kinase pathway for cancer treatment Biochem Soc Trans 32 393 396 Patel et al 2004 Identification of potent selective inhibitors of PI3K as candidate anticancer drugs Proceedings of the American Association of Cancer Research Abstract LB 247 95th Annual Meeting March 27 31 Orlando Fla. USA Ahmadi K and Waterfield Md. 2004 Phosphoinositide 3 Kinase Function and Mechanisms Encyclopedia of Biological Chemistry Lennarz W J Lane M D eds Elsevier Academic Press .

The PI3 kinase Akt PTEN pathway is an attractive target for cancer drug development since such agents would be expected to inhibit proliferation reverse the repression of apoptosis and surmount resistance to cytotoxic agents in cancer cells. PI3 kinase inhibitors have been reported Yaguchi et al 2006 Jour. of the Nat. Cancer Inst. 98 8 545 556 U.S. Pat. No. 7 173 029 U.S. Pat. No. 7 037 915 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 056 U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 457 U.S. Pat. No. 6 770 641 U.S. Pat. No. 6 653 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 403 588 WO 2004 017950 US 2004 092561 WO 2004 007491 WO 2004 006916 WO 2003 037886 US 2003 149074 WO 2003 035618 WO 2003 034997 US 2003 158212 EP 1417976 US 2004 053946 JP 2001247477 JP 08175990 JP 08176070 .

The invention relates generally to thiazolopyrimidine compounds with anti cancer activity and more specifically with PI3 kinase inhibitory activity. Certain hyperproliferative disorders are characterized by the modulation of PI3 kinase function for example by mutations or overexpression of the proteins. Accordingly the compounds of the invention may be useful in the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer. The compounds may inhibit tumor growth in mammals and may be useful for treating human cancer patients.

The invention also relates to methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

More specifically one aspect of the invention provides 4 morpholino 4 thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine compounds of Formula Ia and 4 thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine compounds of Formula Ib 

Another aspect of the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formulas Ia or Ib and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier glidant diluent or excipient. The pharmaceutical composition may further comprise one or more additional therapeutic agents selected from a chemotherapeutic agent an anti inflammatory agent an immunomodulatory agent a neurotropic factor an agent for treating cardiovascular disease an agent for treating liver disease an anti viral agent an agent for treating blood disorders an agent for treating diabetes and an agent for treating immunodeficiency disorders.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of inhibiting PI3 kinase activity comprising contacting a PI3 kinase with an effective inhibitory amount of a compound of Formula Ia or Ib or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof.

Another aspect of the invention provides methods of preventing or treating a hyperproliferative disorder comprising administering to a mammal in need of such treatment an effective amount of a compound of Formula Ia or Ib or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof alone or in combination with one or more additional compounds having anti hyperproliferative properties.

Another aspect the invention provides a method of using a compound of this invention to treat a disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal.

Another aspect of the invention is the use of a compound of this invention in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment or prevention of a disease or condition modulated by PI3 kinase in a mammal.

Another aspect of the invention includes kits comprising i a compound of Formula Ia or Ib or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof ii a container and iii optionally a package insert or label indicating a treatment.

Another aspect of the invention includes methods of preparing methods of separating and methods of purifying compounds of Formula Ia and Ib.

Additional advantages and novel features of this invention shall be set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following specification or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by means of the instrumentalities combinations compositions and methods particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The terms carbocycle carbocyclyl carbocyclic ring and cycloalkyl refer to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 7 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 7 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronapthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronapthyl and the like. Aryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 20 or more ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S or a bicycle having 7 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O P and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. The term heterocycle includes heterocycloalkoxy. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein 2 ring carbon atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 6 or 7 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 20 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Heteroaryl groups are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked nitrogen nitrogen linked or oxygen oxygen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

The term monocyclic heteroaryl refers to a five or six membered unsubstituted or substituted monocyclic heteroaryl radical which contains 1 2 3 or 4 ring heteroatoms independently selected from N O and S. The monocyclic heteroaryl is attached to the C 2 position of the pyrimidine ring according to Formulas Ia and Ib at any carbon carbon linked atom of the monocyclic heteroaryl Rgroup. Monocyclic heteroaryl radicals include but are not limited to 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 5 pyridazinyl 2 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 6 pyrimidinyl 2 pyrazinyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 3 triazolyl 1 triazolyl 5 tetrazolyl 1 tetrazolyl and 2 tetrazolyl. Monocyclic heteroaryls are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

 Fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl and Fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur differ only by their aromatic character and have two rings fused together i.e. share a common bond. Fused bicyclic heterocyclyl and heteroaryl radicals are attached to the C 2 position of the pyrimidine ring according to Formulas Ia and Ib at any carbon carbon linked atom of the fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl or fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl group Rgroup. Fused bicyclic heterocyclyl and heteroaryl radicals include but are not limited to 1H indazole 1H indole indolin 2 one 1 indolin 1 yl ethanone 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazole 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 1H benzo d imidazole 1H benzo d imidazol 2 3H one 1H pyrazolo 3 4 c pyridine 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 3H imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 7H purine 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine 5H pyrrolo 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 amino 1H purin 6 9H one quinoline quinazoline quinoxaline isoquinoline isoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one quinazolin 2 1H one quinoxalin 2 1H one 1 8 naphthyridine pyrido 3 4 d pyrimidine and pyrido 3 2 b pyrazine. Fused bicyclic heterocycles and fused bicyclic heteroaryls are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The substituent groups that alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl heteroaryl fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl and fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl are optionally substituted with include F Cl Br I CN CF NO oxo R C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR NRR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRSOR NR OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y NRR C Coptionally substituted alkyl C Coptionally substituted alkenyl C Coptionally substituted alkynyl C Coptionally substituted carbocyclyl C Coptionally substituted heterocyclyl C Coptionally substituted aryl C Coptionally substituted heteroaryl CRR NRC O CRR NRR and CRR NRR.

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a Formula Ia or Ib compound that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular hyperproliferative disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gammalI calicheamicin omegaIl Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxanes e.g. paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and doxetaxel TAXOTERE Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranmbucil gemcitabine GEMZAR 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA Roche ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifene citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the Formula Ia or Ib compound including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and I or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or 1 meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid methanesulfonic acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula Ia and Ib include compounds of Formulas Ia and Ib and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof.

The term mammal includes but is not limited to humans mice rats guinea pigs monkeys dogs cats horses cows pigs and sheep and poultry.

The present invention provides thiazolopyrimidine compounds and pharmaceutical formulations thereof that are potentially useful in the treatment of diseases conditions and or disorders modulated by PI3 kinases. The compounds may inhibit p110 isoforms including alpha beta gamma and delta as pan inhibitors. The compounds may be p110 isoform selective inhibitors by selective inhibition of one of the p110 isoforms.

More specifically the present invention provides 4 morpholino 4 thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine compounds of Formula Ia and 4 thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine compounds of Formula Ib 

Ris selected from H F Cl Br I CN CRR NRR C RR NR Y R CRR NRS O R CRR OR CRR S O R CRR S O NRR C OR RR C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR C Y NROR C O NRS O R C O NR CRR NRR NO NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRS O R NRSONRR SR S O R S O NRR SC Y R SC Y OR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

Ris a carbon linked monocyclic heteroaryl a carbon linked fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl or a carbon linked fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl where the monocyclic heteroaryl fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl and fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from F Cl Br I CN NRR OR C O R NRC O R N C O R NRC O NRR NRS O R C O OR C O NRR C Calkyl and C Calkyl OR 

R Rand Rare independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a C Cheterocyclic ring optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from oxo CH OR NRR CF F Cl Br I SOR C O R NRC Y R NRS O R C Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a saturated or partially unsaturated C Ccarbocyclic ring 

where said alkyl alkenyl alkynyl carbocyclyl heterocyclyl aryl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CN CF NO oxo R C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR NRR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR CRR NRSOR NR OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl 

with the proviso that when Ris CRR NRRin which Rand Rare independently selected from H or C Calkyl m is 0 1 or 2 and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring having 3 to 20 ring atoms the ring being optionally substituted as defined above then Ris not an indole group which is unsubstituted or substituted.

Formula Ia and Ib compounds are regioisomers i.e. differ by the placement of sulfur and nitrogen in the thiazole ring system. Parent molecules of Formula Ia and Ib compounds are 

In certain embodiments Ris CRR NRRwhere m is 1 and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a C Cheterocyclic ring selected from morpholinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl and pyrrolidinyl. The C Cheterocyclic ring may be substituted with one or more groups selected from NRR CF F Cl Br I SOR C O R NRC Y R NRS O R C Y NRR and C Calkyl

In certain embodiments Ris CRR NRS O Rwhere n is 1 or 2 R R and Rare independently selected from H and C Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl or C Caryl.

In certain embodiments Ris CRR ORwhere n is 1 or 2 and R R and Rare independently selected from H and C Calkyl.

In certain embodiments Ris CRR S O Rwhere n is 1 or 2 and Rand Rare each H. Rmay be C Calkyl or C Caryl.

In certain embodiments Ris C Y NRRwhere Y is O and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form the C Cheterocyclic ring. Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached may form a C Cheterocyclic ring selected from morpholinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl and pyrrolidinyl.

In certain embodiments Ris C Y NRRwhere Y is O and Rand Rare independently selected from H and C Calkyl.

In certain embodiments Ris C Y NRRwhere Y is O and Rand Rare independently selected from H C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl.

In certain embodiments Ris NHRwhere Ris C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl. Rmay be phenyl or 4 pyridyl.

In certain embodiments Ris NRC Y Rwhere Y is O Ris H or C Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl. Rincludes but is not limited to methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl isobutyl 2 2 dimethylpropyl and tert butyl. Ralso includes but is not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.

In certain embodiments Ris NRS O Rwhere Ris H or C Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl.

In certain embodiments Ris S O NRRwhere Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a C Cheterocyclic ring selected from morpholinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl and pyrrolidinyl.

In certain embodiments Ris S O NRRwhere Rand Rare independently selected from H and C Calkyl. Rand Rmay be independently selected from H substituted ethyl and substituted propyl.

In certain embodiments Ris C Calkynyl. The C Calkynyl may be substituted with C Cheterocyclyl which includes but is not limited to morpholinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl and pyrrolidinyl.

where the monocyclic heteroaryl group is optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from F Cl Br I NRR OR C O R NRC O R N C O R NRC O NRR C O NRR and C Calkyl.

In certain embodiments the monocyclic heteroaryl group is substituted with one or more groups selected from F CF NH NHCH N CH OH OCH C O CH NHC O CH N C O CH NHC O NH COH CHO CHOH C O NHCH C O NH and CH.

Exemplary embodiments of Rinclude but are not limited to 1H indazole 1H indole indolin 2 one 1 indolin 1 yl ethanone 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazole 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 1H benzo d imidazole 1H benzo d imidazol 2 3H one 1H pyrazolo 3 4 c pyridine 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 3H imidazo 4 5 c pyridine 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine 7H purine 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine 5H pyrrolo 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 amino 1H purin 6 9H one quinoline quinazoline quinoxaline isoquinoline isoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one quinazolin 2 1H one quinoxalin 2 1H one 1 8 naphthyridine pyrido 3 4 d pyrimidine and pyrido 3 2 b pyrazine.

The attachment site of the Rgroup to the C 2 position of the pyrimidine ring according to Formulas Ia and Ib may be at any carbon carbon linked atom of the fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl or fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl group Rgroup.

Exemplary embodiments of Rinclude the following groups where the wavy line indicates the site of attachment to the pyrimidine ring 

Exemplary embodiments of Rinclude fused bicyclic C Cheterocyclyl and fused bicyclic C Cheteroaryl including those exemplified above substituted with one or more groups independently selected from F Cl Br I CN CF NO oxo C Y R C Y OR C Y NRR CRR NRR CRR OR NRR NRC Y R NRC Y OR NRC Y NRR NRSOR NR OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y NRR OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR SR S O R S O R S O NRR S O OR S O OR SC Y R SC Y OR SC Y NRR C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl C Cheteroaryl CRR NRC O CRR NRR and CRR NRR.

Formula Ia and Ib compounds may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention.

In addition Formula Ia and Ib compounds embrace all geometric and positional isomers. For example if a Formula Ia and Ib compound incorporates a double bond or a fused ring the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures thereof are embraced within the scope of the invention. Both the single positional isomers and mixture of positional isomers are also within the scope of the present invention.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

Formula Ia and Ib compounds may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

Formula Ia and Ib compounds may also exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The present invention also embraces isotopically labeled Formula Ia and Ib compounds which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention and their uses. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C Cl N N O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labeled Formula Ia or Ib compounds e.g. those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated H and carbon 14 C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled Formula Ia or Ib compounds can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Formula Ia and Ib compounds may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein. The starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser v. 1 19 Wiley N.Y. 1967 1999 ed. or 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database .

In certain embodiments compounds of Formula Ia or Ib may be readily prepared using procedures well known to prepare thiazoles pyrimidines and thiazolopyrimidines U.S. Pat. No. 6 608 053 U.S. Pat. No. 6 492 383 U.S. Pat. No. 6 232 320 U.S. Pat. No. 6 187 777 U.S. Pat. No. 3 763 156 U.S. Pat. No. 3 661 908 U.S. Pat. No. 3 475 429 U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 305 US 2003 220365 GB 1390658 GB 1393161 WO 93 13664 and other heterocycles which are described in Comprehensive Heterocyclic Chemistry Editors Katritzky and Rees Pergamon Press 1984.

Compounds of Formula Ia and Ib may be prepared singly or as compound libraries comprising at least 2 for example 5 to 1 000 compounds or 10 to 100 compounds. Libraries of compounds of Formula Ia or Ib may be prepared by a combinatorial split and mix approach or by multiple parallel syntheses using either solution phase or solid phase chemistry by procedures known to those skilled in the art. Thus according to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound library comprising at least 2 compounds or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

For illustrative purposes Schemes 1 7 show general methods for preparing Formula Ia and Ib compounds as well as key intermediates. For a more detailed description of the individual reaction steps see the Examples section below. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the inventive compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted in the Schemes and discussed below other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods described below can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

In preparing Formula Ia and Ib compounds protection of remote functionality e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

Scheme 1 shows a general method for preparation of the thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 82a and thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine intermediates 82b from 3 carboxyester 2 aminothiazoles 80a and 3 amino 2 carboxy ester thiazoles 80b wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Rand Rare as defined for Formula Ia and Ib compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 2 shows a general method for selectively displacing a 5 halide from 2 5 bis halo thiazolopyrimidine intermediates 83a and 83b with morpholine under basic conditions in an organic solvent to prepare 2 halo 4 morpholino thiazolopyrimidine compounds 84a and 84b respectively wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for Formula Ia and Ib compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 3 shows a general method for derivatizing the 2 position of 5 halo 7 morpholino where 2 hydrogen thiazolopyrimidine compounds 85a and 85b Ris H . Treating 85a or 85b with a lithiating reagent to remove the 2 position proton followed by adding an acylating reagent RC O Z where Z is a leaving group such as halide NHS ester carboxylate or dialkylamino gives 5 halo 7 morpholino 2 acyl thiazolopyrimidine compounds 86a and 86b wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for Formula Ia and Ib compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto. An example of RC O Z to prepare 2 formyl compounds R H is N N dimethylformamide DMF .

Scheme 4 shows a general method for Suzuki type coupling of a 5 halo thiazolopyrimidine intermediates 87a and 87b with a monocyclic heteroaryl fused bicyclic heterocycle or fused bicyclic heteroaryl boronate acid R H or ester R alkyl reagent Hy B OR to prepare the 5 monocyclic heteroaryl 5 fused bicyclic heterocycle or 5 fused bicyclic heteroaryl Hy 7 morpholino thiazolopyrimidine compounds 88a and 88b of Formulas Ia and Ib wherein Hal is Cl Br or I and Ris as defined for Formula Ia and Ib compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto. For reviews of the Suzuki reaction see Miyaura et al. 1995 Chem. Rev. 95 2457 2483 Suzuki A. 1999 J. Organomet. Chem. 576 147 168 Suzuki A. in Metal Catalyzed Cross Coupling Reactions Diederich F. Stang P. J. Eds. VCH Weinheim Del. 1998 pp 49 97. The palladium catalyst may be any that is typically used for Suzuki type cross couplings such as PdCl PPh Pd PPh Pd OAc PdCl dppf DCM Pd dba Pt Bu Owens et al 2003 Bioorganic Med. Chem. Letters 13 4143 4145 Molander et al 2002 Organic Letters 4 11 1867 1870 U.S. Pat. No. 6 448 433 .

Generally a Formula Ia or Formula Ib compound may be prepared by a method comprising reacting a Formula IIa or Formula IIb compound 

with a boronate compound comprising a monocyclic heteroaryl a fused bicyclic heterocycle or a fused bicyclic heteroaryl whereby a Formula Ia and Formula Ib compound is formed.

Scheme 5 shows a general method to prepare alkynylated compounds 90a and 90b. Propargylic amines may be prepared by reaction of propargyl bromide with an amine of the formula RRNH wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl aryl and heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring in the presence of an appropriate base CsCOor the like . For reviews of alkynyl amines and related syntheses see Booker Milburn K. I. 1995 2 1039 1074 and Viehe H. G. 1967 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Eng. 6 9 767 778. Alkynes may subsequently be reacted with intermediates 89a or 89b X bromo or iodo via Sonogashira coupling to provide alkynylated compounds 90a and 90b respectively wherein Ris as defined for Formula Ia and Ib compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 6 shows a general method for the synthesis of alkynylated compounds 92a and 92b. Gem dialkyl propargylic amines may be prepared using methods described in Zaragoza et al. 2004 J. Med. Chem. 47 2833. Gem dialkyl chlorides Rand Rare independently methyl ethyl or other alkyl group can be reacted with an amine of the formula RRNH wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl aryl and heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring in the presence of CuCl and an appropriate base e.g. TEA or the like to provide the propargylic alkyne. The propargylic alkyne can be reacted with intermediates 91a or 91b via Sonogashira coupling to provide compounds 92a and 92b respectively wherein Ris as defined for Formula Ia and Ib compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

Scheme 7 shows a general scheme to prepare butynylated compounds 94a and 94b. But 3 yn 1 amines wherein Rand Rare independently H alkyl aryl heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the carbon atom to which they are attached form a carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring can be prepared from reaction of alkynes LG tosylate or other leaving group with an amine of the formula RRNH wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H alkyl aryl and heteroaryl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring using the protocol described by Olomucki M. et al 1960 Ann. Chim. 5 845. But 3 yn 1 amines can subsequently be reacted with intermediates 93a or 93b via Sonogashira coupling according to the descriptions provided for Schemes 5 and 6 to provide compounds 94a and 94b respectively wherein Ris as defined for Formula Ia and Ib compounds or precursors or prodrugs thereto.

In the methods of preparing the compounds of this invention it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified hereinafter separated to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like.

Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved. For example boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like. One skilled in the art will apply techniques most likely to achieve the desired separation.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the Formula Ia and Ib compounds may be atropisomers and are considered part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 1975 J. Chromatogr. 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III 1982 J. Org. Chem. 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto J. Chromatogr. 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

Determination of the activity of PI3 kinase activity of a compound of Formula Ia or Ib is possible by a number of direct and indirect detection methods. Certain exemplary compounds described herein were prepared characterized and assayed for their PI3K binding activity Examples 73 and 74 and in vitro activity against tumor cells Example 75 . The range of PI3K binding activities was less than 1 nM nanomolar to about 10 M micromolar . Certain exemplary compounds of the invention had PI3K binding activity ICvalues less than 10 nM. Certain compounds of the invention had tumor cell based activity ICvalues less than 100 nM.

The Formula Ia and Ib compounds may inhibit p110 catalytic subunit isoforms including alpha beta gamma and delta as pan inhibitors. Certain Formula Ia and Ib compounds may be p110 isoform selective inhibitors by selectively inhibiting one of one of the p110 isoforms alpha beta gamma or delta. One embodiment of the invention is a Formula Ia or Ib compound which is a p110 alpha selective inhibitor. A p110 selective inhibitor may mitigate the risk of toxicity due to potential toxicities associated with inhibiting the other p110 isoforms. Certain Formula Ia and Ib compounds may be p110 isoform pan inhibitors by possessing significant binding to two or more of the p110 isoforms. One embodiment of the invention is a Formula Ia or Ib compound which is a pan inhibitor of PI3K.

Binding of Formula Ia and Ib compounds from Table 1 to purified preparations of p110 isoforms alpha beta delta and gamma was measured by a Scintillation Proximity Assay SPA to determine binding activity IC Mol and selectivity of binding of beta delta and gamma isoforms relative to alpha Example 74 .

The cytotoxic or cytostatic activity of Formula Ia and Ib exemplary compounds was measured by establishing a proliferating mammalian tumor cell line in a cell culture medium adding a Formula Ia or Ib compound culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days and measuring cell viability Example 75 . Cell based in vitro assays were used to measure viability i.e. proliferation IC cytotoxicity EC and induction of apoptosis caspase activation .

The in vitro potency of Formula Ia and Ib exemplary compounds was measured by the cell proliferation assay CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay commercially available from Promega Corp. Madison Wis. Example 75 against several tumor cell lines including PC3 Detroit 562 and MDAMB361.1. ECvalues were established for the tested compounds. The range of in vitro cell potency activities was about 100 nM to about 10 M. This homogeneous assay method is based on the recombinant expression of U.S. Pat. No. 5 583 024 U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 713 U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 670 and determines the number of viable cells in culture based on quantitation of the ATP present an indicator of metabolically active cells Crouch et al 1993 J. Immunol. Meth. 160 81 88 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 677 . The CellTiter Glo Assay was conducted in 96 or 384 well format making it amenable to automated high throughput screening HTS Cree et al 1995 AntiCancer Drugs 6 398 404 . The homogeneous assay procedure involves adding the single reagent CellTiter Glo Reagent directly to cells cultured in serum supplemented medium. Cell washing removal of medium and multiple pipetting steps are not required. The system can detect as few as 15 cells well in a 384 well format in 10 minutes after adding reagent and mixing.

The homogeneous add mix measure format results in cell lysis and generation of a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP present. The amount of ATP is directly proportional to the number of cells present in culture. The CellTiter Glo Assay generates a glow type luminescent signal produced by the luciferase reaction which has a half life generally greater than five hours depending on cell type and medium used. Viable cells are reflected in relative luminescence units RLU . The substrate Beetle Luciferin is oxidatively decarboxylated by recombinant firefly luciferase with concomitant conversion of ATP to AMP and generation of photons. The extended half life eliminates the need to use reagent injectors and provides flexibility for continuous or batch mode processing of multiple plates. This cell proliferation assay can be used with various multiwell formats e.g. 96 or 384 well format. Data can be recorded by luminometer or CCD camera imaging device. The luminescence output is presented as relative light units RLU measured over time.

Certain ADME properties were measured for certain exemplary compounds by assays including Caco 2 Permeability Example 76 Hepatocyte Clearance Example 77 Cytochrome P450 Inhibition Example 78 Cytochrome P450 Induction Example 79 Plasma Protein Binding Example 80 and hERG channel blockage Example 81 .

Exemplary Formula Ia and Ib compounds No. 101 147 which were made according to the methods of this invention include the following structures and their corresponding names ChemDraw Ultra CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. in Table 1.

The compounds of the invention may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intradermal intrathecal and epidural transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds may be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of Formula Ia or Ib compound. A typical dose may be about 100 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose may be administered once a day QID twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors may influence the dosage and administration regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested daily or less frequently for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

Formula Ia and Ib compounds are useful for treating diseases conditions and or disorders including but not limited to those characterized by over expression of lipid kinases e.g. PI3 kinase. Accordingly another aspect of this invention includes methods of treating or preventing diseases or conditions that can be treated or prevented by inhibiting lipid kinases including PI3. In one embodiment the method comprises administering to a mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula Ia or Ib or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Formula Ia and Ib compounds may be employed for the treatment of a hyperproliferative disease or disorder including tumors cancers and neoplastic tissue along with pre malignant and non neoplastic or non malignant hyperproliferative disorders. In one embodiment a human patient is treated with a compound of Formula Ia or Ib and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle wherein said compound of Formula Ia or Ib is present in an amount to detectably inhibit PI3 kinase activity.

Cancers which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to breast ovary cervix prostate testis genitourinary tract esophagus larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma stomach skin keratoacanthoma lung epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC small cell carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone colon adenoma pancreas adenocarcinoma thyroid follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papillary carcinoma seminoma melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma myeloid disorders lymphoid disorders hairy cells buccal cavity and pharynx oral lip tongue mouth pharynx small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s and leukemia.

Another aspect of this invention provides a compound of this invention for use in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described herein in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a compound of this invention in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described herein in a warm blooded animal such as a mammal for example a human suffering from such disorder.

In order to use a compound of this invention for the therapeutic treatment including prophylactic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition. According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition or formulation comprising a compound of this invention in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier. Pharmaceutical formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. . Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a Formula Ia or Ib compound and a carrier diluent or excipient. Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the Formula Ia or Ib compound is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a Formula Ia or Ib compound or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. Formula Ia or Ib compound or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. The Formula Ia or Ib compound is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the Formula Ia or Ib compound may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a compound having the desired degree of purity may optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 16th edition Osol A. Ed. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. Formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. Such sterilization is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes. Formulations ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of the inhibitor administered parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 100 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations of compounds of Formula Ia and Ib may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula Ia or Ib which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinyl alcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

Formulations of a Formula Ia or Ib compound suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as pills capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of Formula Ia or Ib. Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom. Tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules e.g. gelatin capsules syrups or elixirs may be prepared for oral use. Formulations of compounds of Formula Ia or Ib intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

For treatment of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base. The aqueous phase of the cream base may include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs.

The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. While the phase may comprise merely an emulsifier it desirably comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. It is also preferred to include both an oil and a fat. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations. Emulsifiers and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of Formula Ia or Ib compounds contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

The pharmaceutical compositions of Formula Ia or Ib compounds may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans may contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which may vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 to 20 w w for example about 0.5 to 10 w w for example about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

The compounds of Formulas Ia and Ib may be employed alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents for the treatment of a disease or disorder described herein such as a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . In certain embodiments a compound of Formula Ia or Ib is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a second compound that has anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer . The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the compound of Formula Ia or Ib such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such compounds are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. In one embodiment a composition of this invention comprises a compound of Formula Ia or Ib or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent such as described herein.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other chemotherapeutic agents or treatments.

The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

In a particular embodiment of anti cancer therapy a compound of Formula Ia or Ib or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof may be combined with other chemotherapeutic hormonal or antibody agents such as those described herein as well as combined with surgical therapy and radiotherapy. Combination therapies according to the present invention thus comprise the administration of at least one Formula Ia or Ib compound or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and the use of at least one other cancer treatment method. The amounts of the compound s of Formula Ia or Ib and the other pharmaceutically active chemotherapeutic agent s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of Formulas Ia and Ib compounds described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of Formulas Ia and Ib including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolite products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a compound of Formula Ia or Ib or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of Formula Ia or Ib or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a compound of Formula Ia or Ib. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In addition the label or package insert may indicate that the patient to be treated is one having a disorder such as a hyperproliferative disorder neurodegeneration cardiac hypertrophy pain migraine or a neurotraumatic disease or event. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of Formula Ia or Ib can be used to treat a disorder resulting from abnormal cell growth. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of Formula Ia or Ib and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of Formula Ia or Ib and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of Formula Ia or Ib such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula Ia or Ib contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In certain other embodiments wherein the kit comprises a composition of Formula Ia or Ib and a second therapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

The Suzuki type coupling reaction is useful to attach a monocyclic heteroaryl a fused bicyclic heterocycle or a fused bicyclic heteroaryl at the 5 position of the pyrimidine ring see Scheme 4 . For example 2 substituted 4 5 chlorothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 2 or 2 substituted 4 5 chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 4 may be combined with 1.5 equivalents of 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 1 and dissolved in 3 equivalents of sodium carbonate as a 1 molar solution in water and an equal volume of acetonitrile. A catalytic amount or more of a low valent palladium reagent such as bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride is added. A variety of boronic acids or boronic esters can be used in place of the indazole boronic ester indicated. Also alternatively the nitrogen of the indazole may be protected for example compounds 54 and 62. In some cases potassium acetate was used in place of sodium carbonate to adjust the pH of the aqueous layer. The reaction was then heated to about 140 150 C. under pressure in a Biotage Optimizer microwave reactor Biotage Inc. for 10 to 30 minutes. The contents are extracted with ethyl acetate or another organic solvent. After evaporation of the organic layer the Suzuki coupling products 5 substituted 4 5 1H indazol 4 yl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 3 or 4 5 1H indazol 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 5 may be purified on silica or by reverse phase HPLC.

Procedures to attach a monocyclic heteroaryl at the 5 position of the pyrimidine ring include where substituted 5 chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 2 or 5 chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 4 was combined with 1.5 equivalents of 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine 33 alternatively a variety of boronic acids or boronic esters can be used in place of 33 and dissolved in 3.0 equivalents of sodium carbonate as a 1 molar solution in water and an equal volume of acetonitrile. In some cases potassium acetate was used in place of sodium carbonate to adjust the pH of the aqueous layer. The reaction was then heated to between 140 150 C. under pressure in a Biotage optimizer microwave reactor for 10 to 30 minutes. The contents were extracted with ethyl acetate. After evaporation of the organic layer the product 34 or 35 was purified on silica or by reverse phase HPLC.

5 1H indazol 4 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 2 carboxylic acid 6 or 5 1H indazol 4 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 2 carboxylic acid 8 is treated with 1.5 eq HATU 3 eq of primary or secondary amine RNH where R H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl and 3 eq of DIPEA in DMF to approximately 0.1 M concentration. The reaction is stirred until complete and extracted in ethylacetate with saturated bicarbonate solution one time. The organic layer is dried filtered and concentrated to yield the crude intermediate. This intermediate is purified via reverse phase HPLC to yield amide products 7 or 9.

5 Chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 2 sulfonyl chloride 10 or 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 2 sulfonyl chloride 12 is suspended in organic solvent such as DCM before addition of 2 equiv. of a primary or secondary amine RNH where R H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl and 3 eq of a tertiary amine base such as diisopropylethylamine DIPEA . The reactions may be monitored by LCMS until complete. The crude reaction mixtures are diluted with ethyl acetate extracted with saturated ammonium chloride and back extracted with ethyl acetate. The crude sulfonamide intermediates 11 and 13 are used directly in the subsequent Suzuki couplings.

4 5 Chlorothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 14 U.S. Pat. No. 3 850 917 or 445 chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 16 is dissolved or suspended at a 0.2 molar concentration in THF and cooled to about 50 C. in a dry ice acetonitrile bath before adding 2 equivalents of 2.5 M nBuLi in hexanes. After 15 minutes about 3.0 molar equivalents of an aldehyde or ketone RCO where R H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl was added to the solution. The reaction continued to stir at 50 C. for 1 h and then in most cases was allowed to come to 0 C. When the reaction was complete by TLC or mass spec. it was quenched into a saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted two times with EtOAc. The organic layer was concentrated and either used as a crude mixture or purified on silica to give the product 15 or 17.

4 5 Chloro 2 methylsulfonyl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 69 1.0 eq was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran 0.1 M . Primary or secondary amine 1.4 eq and triethylamine 1.4 eq were slowly added to give 70 or 71. The solution was stirred for 5 minutes at 40 C. and the solvent was removed in vacuo. To the residue was added 1.5 eq of 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine 33 or 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 2 amine or other like boronate reagent trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.07 eq and equal parts of 1M NaCO 3.0 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 130 C. for 10 minutes. Upon completion water was added to the reaction mixture and solid was filtered to yield crude 72 or 73.

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 leg boronic acid R B OH 1.1 eq and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 0.1 eq in 1M NaCOaqueous solution 3 eq and acetonitrile 3 eq was heated to 100 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 to 40 min to give 2 substituted 19. Upon completion 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 1 1.3 eq and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 0.1 eq were added in the same pot. The reaction mixture was heated to 150 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 to 15 min. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 5 mL . The combined organic layers were concentrated to yield crude 20.

Alternatively intermediate 4 5 chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 1.0 eq optionally substituted phenylboronic acid 36 or heterocycloboronic acid 1.05 eq and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 0.1 eq in 1M NaCOaqueous solution 3.0 eq and an equal volume of acetonitrile were heated to 100 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 30 min. Upon completion water was added and solid was filtered to give the 5 substituted intermediate 37 which was reacted with a monocyclic heteroaryl boronate reagent 38 1.5 eq such as 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine 33 and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 0.07 eq in 1M NaCO or 1M KOAc aqueous solution 3.0 eq and an equal volume of acetonitrile at 140 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 15 min. Upon completion water was added to the reaction mixture and solid was filtered to yield the crude 2 substituted intermediate 39 where X SOMe OMe NH CHNHSOMe NHSOMe morpholino NHCOCH Y CR N and Z CR N.

5 Chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 amine 21 1 eq an acid chloride 1.5 2 eq in dichloromethane is stirred where R H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl. The reaction is monitored by LC MS until complete. The mixture is evaporated to give the crude amide 22 which may be directly used for the next step reaction without purification.

To a 0.25 to 0.40 M solution of 1 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl N methylmethanamine 23 in DCM cooled to 0 C. is added 1.5 eq. of TEA followed by the dropwise addition of 1.0 to 1.5 eq. of an acid chloride or sulfonylchloride diluted in DCM where R H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl. The reaction is stirred at ambient temperature and monitored for completeness by LCMS. After completion the reaction volume is increased with DCM and dilute aqueous sodium bicarbonate is added to the solution. The organic and aqueous layers are separated. Finally the organic layer is washed with brine and dried MgSO . The dried organic solution is concentrated in vacuo and purified by silica chromatography if desired to the amide 24a or sulfonamide 24b product.

3 5 Chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl aniline 25 1 eq carboxylic acid RCOH 1.5 eq where R H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl 1 hydroxy 7 azabenzotriazole HOAt 0.2 eq 0 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU 1.5 eq and N N diisopropylethylamine 2.5 eq in DMF is stirred at room temperature. The reaction is monitored by LC MS until complete. The reaction mixture is diluted with ethyl acetate washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate and brine. The organic layer is dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated to yield amide product 26.

To a solution of 4 5 chloro 2 iodothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 27 0.05 g 0.13 mmol in DMF 1.00 ml was added the appropriate aniline 200 mol CsCO 50 mol Pd dba 5 mol and XANTPHOS 10 mol . The reaction was heated to 110 C. under pressure in a Biotage optimizer microwave reactor for 30 min. The resulting solution was concentrated in vacuo to give 28 after coupling with boronic acid reagent 1 following General Procedure A.

Alternatively 18 1.0 eq optionally substituted aniline 2.0 eq tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 0.05 eq 9 9 dimethyl 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino xanthene 0.10 eq and cesium carbonate 0.50 eq in DMF 0.15 M were heated to 100 115 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 15 30 min. Upon completion the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and crude mixture was purified by silica gel chromatography to give intermediate 28a which was reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine 1.5 eq and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 0.07 eq in 1M NaCOaqueous solution 3.0 eq and an equal volume of acetonitrile and heated to 140 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 min. Upon completion water was added to the reaction mixture and solid was filtered to yield crude 28b where X is H SOMe or morpholino.

To a solution of 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl methanamine 29 50 mg 0.2 mmol in CHCl 4 mL is added EtN 84 L 0.6 mmol and the appropriate acid chloride or HCl salt thereof 0.3 mmol where R H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl. The reaction is stirred 18 48 hr at room temperature before being quenched with water. The aqueous layer is extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics are dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The 5 chloro crude product was coupled with boronate reagent 1 and palladium catalyst according to General Procedure A to give amide 30 which was purified by reversed phase HPLC purification.

Alternatively to a solution of 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl methanamine 29 111 mg 0.39 mmol in DMF 5 mL is added 2 6 lutidine 48.2 L 0.41 mmol and the appropriate acid chloride or HCl salt thereof 0.39 mmol . The reaction is stirred 18 72 hr at room temperature before being quenched with water. The aqueous layer is extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics are dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo. The 5 chloro crude product is coupled with boronate reagent 7 and palladium catalyst according to General Procedure A to give 20 mg of amide 30 which is purified by reversed phase HPLC purification.

A mixture of 4 5 chloro 2 6 fluoropyridin 3 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 31 about four equivalents of a primary or secondary amine R H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl and about two eq. diisopropylethylamine in N methylpyrrolidine 0.1M is heated to about 130 140 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 40 min followed by removal of volatiles under high vacuum. The crude mixture is purified by flash chromatography to give the 2 pyridyl aminated intermediate product 32 which may be Suzuki coupled with a boronate reagent such as 1 following General Procedure A.

In order to illustrate the invention the following examples are included. However it is to be understood that these examples do not limit the invention and are only meant to suggest a method of practicing the invention. Persons skilled in the art will recognize that the chemical reactions described may be readily adapted to prepare a number of other PI3K inhibitors of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting interfering groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

In the examples described below unless otherwise indicated all temperatures are set forth in degrees Celsius C. . Reagents were purchased from commercial suppliers such as Aldrich Chemical Company Lancaster TCI or Maybridge and were used without further purification unless otherwise indicated.

The reactions set forth below were done generally under a positive pressure of nitrogen or argon or with a drying tube unless otherwise stated in anhydrous solvents and the reaction flasks were typically fitted with rubber septa for the introduction of substrates and reagents via syringe. Glassware was oven dried and or heat dried.

Column chromatography was conducted on a Biotage system Manufacturer Dyax Corporation having a silica gel column or on a silica SEP PAK cartridge Waters . H NMR spectra were recorded on a Varian instrument operating at 400 MHz. H NMR spectra were obtained in deuterated CDCl d DMSO CHOD or d acetone solutions reported in ppm using chloroform as the reference standard 7.25 ppm . When peak multiplicities are reported the following abbreviations are used s singlet d doublet t triplet m multiplet br broadened dd doublet of doublets dt doublet of triplets . Coupling constants when given are reported in Hertz Hz . All compounds final products and intermediates in the following Examples were characterized by LC MS and the parent ion was detected.

A mixture of methyl 4 aminothiazole 5 carboxylate 40 WO 2006 096338 WO 2005 049613 and urea is heated at 190 C. for 2 hours. The hot reaction mixture is poured onto sodium hydroxide solution and any insoluble material is removed by filtration. The mixture is acidified HCl 2N to yield thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 5 7 4H 6H dione 41 Baker et al 1970 Jour. of the Chem. Soc. 18 2478 84 U.S. Pat. No. 3 277 093 Childress and McKee 1951 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 73 3862 64 Erlenmeyer and Furger 1943 Helv. Chem. Acta 26 366 68 as a white precipitate which was collected by filtration and air dried.

A mixture of thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 5 7 4H 6H dione 41 and phosphorous oxychloride is heated at reflux for 6 h. The reaction mixture is then cooled and poured onto ice water with vigorous stirring yielding a precipitate. The mixture was then filtered to yield 5 7 dichlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 42 as a white solid.

A mixture of 5 7 dichlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 42 morpholine 8.11 mL 2.2 eq. and MeOH 150 mL was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered washed with water and MeOH to yield 4 5 chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 16 as a white solid.

To a suspension of 4 5 chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 16 1.75 g 6.85 mmol in dry THF 40 mL at 78 C. was added a 2.5M solution of n butyllithium nBuLi in hexane 3.3 mL 1.2 eq. . After stirring for 1 h dry DMF 796 L 1.5 eq. was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at 78 C. and then warmed slowly to room temperature. After a further 2 h at room temperature the reaction mixture poured onto ice water yielding a yellow precipitate. This was collected by filtration and air dried to yield 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 2 carbaldehyde 43.

To a suspension of 4 5 chlorothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 14 1.75 g 6.85 mmol in dry THF at 78 C. was added a 2.5M solution of n butyllithium nBuLi in hexane 3.3 mL 1.2 eq. . After stirring for 1 h dry DMF 796 uL 1.5 eq. was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at 78 C. and then warmed slowly to room temperature. After a further 2 h at room temperature the reaction mixture was poured onto ice water yielding a yellow precipitate. This was collected by filtration and air dried to yield 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 2 carbaldehyde 44.

Following the procedures of WO 2006 046031 and WO 2006 046040 to a solution of 3 bromo 2 methyl aniline 5.0 g 26.9 mmol in chloroform 50 mL was added potassium acetate 1.05 eq. 28.2 mmol 2.77 g . Acetic anhydride 2.0 eq. 53.7 mmol 5.07 mL was added to the mixture cooling in ice water. The mixture was then stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes after which time a white gelatinous solid formed. 18 Crown 6 0.2 eq. 5.37 mmol 1.42 g was then added followed by iso amyl nitrite 2.2 eq. 59.1 mmol 7.94 mL and the mixture was heated under reflux for 18 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool and was partitioned between chloroform 3 100 mL and saturated aqueous sodium hydrogen carbonate 100 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine 100 mL separated and dried MgSO .

The crude product was evaporated onto silica and purified by chromatography eluting with 20 40 EtOAc petrol to give 1 4 bromo indazol 1 yl ethanone A 3.14 g 49 as an orange solid and 4 bromo 1H indazole B 2.13 g 40 as a pale orange solid. A H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 2.80 3H s 7.41 1H t J 7.8 Hz 7.50 1H d J 7.8 Hz 8.15 1H s 8.40 1H d J 7.8 Hz . B H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.25 1H t J 7.3 Hz 7.33 1H d J 7.3 Hz 7.46 1H d J 7.3 Hz 8.11 1H s 10.20 1H br s .

To a solution of the 1 4 bromo indazol 1 yl ethanone A 3.09 g 12.9 mmol in MeOH 50 mL was added 6N aqueous HCl 30 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 7 h. The MeOH was evaporated and the mixture partitioned between EtOAc 2 50 mL and water 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL separated and dried MgSO . The solvent was removed by evaporation under reduced pressure to give 4 bromo 1H indazole B 2.36 g 93 .

To a solution of the 4 bromo 1H indazole B 500 mg 2.54 mmol and bis pinacolato diboron 1.5 eq. 3.81 mmol in DMSO 20 mL was added potassium acetate 3.0 eq. 7.61 mmol 747 mg dried in drying pistol and PdCl dppf 3 mol 0.076 mmol 62 mg . The mixture was degassed with argon and heated at 80 C. for 40 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool and partitioned between water 50 mL and ether 3 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL separated and dried MgSO . The crude material was purified by chromatography eluting with 30 40 EtOAc petrol to give an inseparable 3 1 mixture of the 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 1 369 mg 60 and indazole 60 mg 20 isolated as a yellow gum which solidified upon standing to furnish as an off white solid. H NMR 400 MHz d DMSO 1.41 12H s 7.40 1H dd J 8.4 Hz 6.9 Hz 7.59 1H d J 8.4 Hz 7.67 111 d J 6.9 Hz 10.00 1H br s 8.45 1H s and indazole 7.40 1H t 7.18 1H t J 7.9 Hz 7.50 1H d J 9.1 Hz 7.77 1H d J 7.9 Hz 8.09 1H s . Impurity at 1.25.

To a solution of 2 methyl 3 nitroaniline 2.27 g 14.91 mmol in acetic acid 60 mL was added a solution of sodium nitrite 1.13 g 1.1 eq. in water 5 mL . After 2 h the deep red solution was poured onto ice water and the resulting precipitate collected by filtration to yield 4 nitro 1H indazole C 1.98 g 81 .

A mixture of 4 nitro 1H indazole C 760 mg 4.68 mmol palladium on charcoal 10 cat. and ethanol 30 mL was stirred under a balloon of hydrogen for 4 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered through celite and the solvent removed in vacuo to yield 1H indazol 4 ylamine D 631 mg 100 .

An aqueous solution of sodium nitrite 337 mg 4.89 mmol in water 2 mL was added dropwise to a suspension of 1H indazol 4 ylamine D 631 mg 4.74 mmol in 6M hydrochloric acid 7.2 mL at below 0 C. After stirring for 30 minutes sodium tetrafluoroborate 724 mg was added to the reaction mixture. A viscous solution resulted which was filtered and washed briefly with water to yield 1H indazole 4 diazonium tetrafluoroborate salt E 69 218 mg 20 as a deep red solid.

Dry methanol 4 mL was purged with argon for 5 minutes. To this was added 1H indazole 4 diazonium tetrafluoroborate salt 218 mg 0.94 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 239 mg 1.0 eq. and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II chloride 20 mg . The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 h and then filtered through celite. The residue was purified using flash chromatography to yield 4 4 4 5 5 Tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 1 117 mg .

Following the procedures of WO 2006 046031 to a solution of 4 fluoro 2 nitrotoluene 3.44 g in trifluoroacetic acid 13 mL was added concentrated sulfuric acid 4 mL followed by N bromosuccinimide 5.92 g . The reaction mixture was stirred for 16 h and was then quenched with brine extracted into ethyl acetate and dried MgSO . The solvent was removed in vacuo to furnish crude 1 bromo 5 fluoro 2 methyl 3 nitro benzene 5.96 g .

To a solution of crude 1 bromo 5 fluoro 2 methyl 3 nitro benzene 5.96 g in MeOH 90 mL was added concentrated hydrochloric acid 11.7 mL and iron 6.1 g and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux. After 16 h the mixture was cooled diluted with DCM washed with sodium carbonate solution dried MgSO and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was purified using flash chromatography to yield 3 bromo 5 fluoro 2 methyl phenylamine 1.46 g .

To a solution of 3 bromo 5 fluoro 2 methyl phenylamine 470 mg in dioxane 6 mL was added triethylamine 1.28 mL palladium acetate 25 mg 2 dicyclohexylphosphino biphenyl 161 mg and pinacol borane 1.001 ml and the mixture was heated to 80 C. for 4 h. The reaction mixture was cooled diluted with chloroform washed with brine dried MgSO and the solvent removed in vacuo. The residue was purified using flash chromatography to yield 45 466 mg .

To 3.07 g of 5 bromo 2 3 diaminopyridine 46 was added 20 mL formic acid under Nand the reaction was heated to reflux for four hours and allowed to cool to room temperature. The reaction was stirred overnight at room temperature and complete reaction was confirmed by LCMS. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and purified by flash chromatography DCM MeOH to give 1.64 g of compound 47 51 yield . Compound 47 1.64 g in 40 mL THF was added to 0.22 g 1.1 eq NaH in 10 mL THF under Nat 78 C. The reaction was stirred at 78 C. for 30 minutes followed by the addition of 1.45 g of SEM Cl 1.05 eq and allowed to warm up to room temperature. The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight and complete reaction was confirmed by LCMS. The reaction was quenched with water followed by the addition of NaCl not saturated and the two products extracted with EtOAc and concentrated in vacuo. The two regioisomers were separated by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexanes to give 1.68 g 48 and 0.5 g 49 80 overall yield . Compound 49 0.5 g was dissolved in 50 mL dioxane followed by the addition of 1.76 g 2.0 eq of bis tributyltin 88 mg 0.05 eq of Pd PPh and 0.19 g 3.0 eq of LiCl. The reaction mixture was heated to reflux under Nfor 1.5 hours and complete reaction confirmed by LCMS. The mixture was cooled to room temperature filtered through celite celite washed with EtOAc rotary evaporated and purified by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexanes to give 501 mg of 6 tributylstannyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H imidazo 4 5 b pyridine 50 61 yield . MS Q1 539.2 M 

To 5.06 g of 5 bromo 2 3 diaminopyridine 46 Ryabukhin et al 2006 Synthesis 21 3715 3726 Oguchi et al 2000 J. Med. Chem. 43 16 3052 3066 Seki et al 1995 J. Hetero. Chem. 32 3 1071 73 Fray et al 1995 J. Med. Chem. 38 18 3524 35 was added 50 mL acetic acid under Nand the reaction was heated to reflux overnight. Complete reaction was confirmed by LCMS. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and purified by flash chromatography DCM MeOH to give 4.68 g of 6 bromo 2 methyl 3H imidazo 4 5 b pyridine 51 82 yield which may also be prepared by the methods of Cee et al 2007 J. Med. Chem. 50 4 627 40 Itoh et al 1982 J. Hetero. Chem. 19 3 513 17. 6 Bromo 2 methyl 3H imidazo 4 5 b pyridine 4.68 g in 150 mL THF was added to 0.63 g 1.1 eq NaH in 10 mL THF under Nat 78 C. The reaction was stirred at 78 C. for 30 minutes followed by the addition of 3.86 g of SEM Cl 1.05 eq and allowed to warm up to room temperature. The reaction was stirred at room temperature 4.5 hours and complete reaction was confirmed by LCMS. The reaction was quenched with water followed by the addition of NaCl not saturated and the two products extracted with EtOAc and concentrated in vacuo. The two regioisomers were separated by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexanes to give 2.84 g 6 bromo 2 methyl 3 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 3H imidazo 4 5 b pyridine 52 and 1.94 g 6 bromo 2 methyl 1 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 1H imidazo 4 5 b pyridine 53 63 overall yield . 6 Bromo 2 methyl 34 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 3H imidazo 4 5 b pyridine 52 2.08 g was dissolved in 50 mL toluene followed by the addition of 2.32 g 1.5 eq of bis pinacolato diboron 0.24 g 0.05 eq of PdCl dppf and 1.79 g 3.0 eq of KOAc. The reaction mixture was heated to 95 C. under Nand let stir overnight. Complete reaction confirmed by LCMS. The mixture was cooled to room temperature rotovapped and purified by flash chromatography EtOAc Hexanes to give 1.83 g of 2 methyl 6 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 3 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxy methyl 3H imidazo 4 5 b pyridine 54 77 yield . MS Q1 390.2 M 

Step A Preparation of 4 chloro 1H indazole To a 250 ml flask with stirbar was added 2 methyl 3 chloroaniline 8.4 ml 9.95 g 70.6 mmol potassium acetate 8.3 g 84.7 mmol and chloroform 120 ml . This mixture was cooled to 0 C. with stirring. To the cooled mixture was added acetic anhydride 20.0 ml 212 mmol drop wise over 2 minutes. The reaction mixture was warmed to 25 C. and stirred for 1 hour. At this point the reaction was heated to 60 C. Isoamyl nitrite 18.9 ml 141 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred overnight at 60 C. Once complete water 75 ml and THF 150 ml were added and the reaction was cooled to 0 C. LiOH 20.7 g 494 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 3 hours. Water 200 ml was added and the product was extracted with EtOAc 300 ml 100 ml . The organic layers were combined dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to yield 11.07 g 4 chloro 1H indazole 100 as an orange solid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.18 d J 1 Hz 114 7.33 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.31 t J 7 Hz 1H 7.17 dd J 7 Hz 1 Hz 1H . LCMS ESI pos m e 153 M 1 .

Step B Preparation of 4 chloro 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H indazole To a 1 L flask with mechanical stirrer was added 4 chloro 1H indazole 75.0 g 0.492 mol pyridinium p toluenesulfonate 1.24 g 4.92 mmol CHCl 500 ml and 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 98.6 ml 1.08 mol . With stirring this mixture was heated to 45 C. for 16 hours. Analysis of reaction mixture shows production of both isomers of product. Cooled reaction to 25 C. and added CHCl 200 ml . Washed the solution with water 300 ml and saturated NaHCO 250 ml . Dried the organics with MgSOand concentrated to dryness. Purified the crude product by dissolving in EtOAc Hexanes 4 6 1 L and adding SiO 1.2 L . The mixture was filtered and the cake was washed with EtOAc Hexanes 4 6 2 L . The organics were concentrated in vacuo to yield 110.2 g 4 chloro 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H indazole 95 as an orange solid. Isomer 1 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.10 d J 1 Hz 1H 7.50 dd J 9 Hz 1 Hz 1H 7.29 dd J 9 Hz 8 Hz 1H 7.15 dd J 8 Hz 1 Hz 1H 5.71 dd J 9 Hz 3 Hz 1H 4.02 m 1H 3.55 m 1H 2.51 m 1H 2.02 m 2H 1.55 m 3H . LCMS ESI pos m e 237 M 1 Isomer 2 H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.25 d J 1 Hz 1H 7.62 dd J 9 Hz 1 Hz 1H 7.20 dd J 9 Hz 8 Hz 1H 7.06 dd J 8 Hz 1 Hz 1H 5.69 dd J 9 Hz 3 Hz 1H 4.15 m 1H 3.80 m 1H 2.22 m 2H 2.05 m 1H 1.75 m 31 1 . LCMS ESI pos m e 237 M 1 .

Step C Preparation of 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole To a 500 ml flask with stirbar was added 4 chloro 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 1H indazole 10.0 g 42.2 mmol DMSO 176 ml PdCl PPh 6.2 g 8.86 mmol tricyclohexylphosphine 0.47 g 1.69 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 16.1 g 63.4 mmol and potassium acetate 12.4 g 0.127 mol . With stirring the mixture was heated to 130 C. for 16 hours. The reaction was cooled to 25 C. and EtOAc 600 ml was added and washed with water 2 250 ml . The organics were dried with MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The crude product was purified by SiOplug 120 g eluting with 10 EtOAc Hexanes 1 L and 30 EtOAc Hexanes 1 L . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give 13.9 g 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 100 of product 62 as a 20 wt wt solution in ethyl acetate. H NMR shows the presence of 20 wt wt bis pinacolato diboron. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.37 s 1H 7.62 dd J 14 Hz 2 Hz 111 7.60 dd J 7 Hz 1 Hz 1H 7.31 dd J 8 Hz 7 Hz 1H 5.65 dd J 9 Hz 3 Hz 1H 4.05 m 1H 3.75 m 1H 2.59 m 1H 2.15 m 1H 2.05 m 1H 1.75 m 3H 1.34 s 12H . LCMS ESI pos m e 245 M 1 .

Step A Preparation of 4 nitro 1H indazole A mixture of 2 methyl 3 nitro aniline 200 g 1.315 moles acetic acid 8000 ml was cooled to 15 20 C. and a solution of sodium nitrite 90.6 g 1.315 moles in water 200 ml was slowly added over 30 min. After the addition the reaction temp. was increased to 25 30 C. and the reaction was stirred at this temp for 2 3 h. Reaction progress was monitored by TLC and after completion of reaction product was filtered and residue was washed with acetic acid 1000 ml . Acetic acid was distilled under vacuum 550 mm of Hg below 80 C. and water 8000 ml was added cooled to 25 30 C. and stirred for 30 min. The slurry was filtered and washed with water 1000 ml . Crude product was dried under heating at 70 80 C. for 2 hours then was taken in 5 ethyl acetate n hexane 100 2000 ml solution and stirred for 1 1.5 h at ambient temperature. The suspension was filtered and washed with 5 ethyl acetate n hexane mixture 25 475 ml . The product obtained was dried under vacuum at below 80 C. for 10 12 h to give 4 nitro 1H indazole as a brown solid 150 g 70 mp 200 203 C. H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 13.4 br 1H 8.6 s 1H 8.2 7.95 dd 2H 7.4 m 1H . ESMS m z 164 M 1 . Purity 95 HPLC 

Step B Preparation of 4 amino 1H indazole A mixture of 4 nitro 1H indazole 200 g 1.22 moles and 10 palladium on carbon 20.0 g. in EtOH 3000 ml was hydrogenated at ambient temperature reaction was exothermic and temperature increased to 50 C. . After completion of reaction the catalyst was removed by filtration. The solvent was evaporated under vacuum at below 80 C. and cooled to room temperature and n hexane 1000 ml was added to the residue and stirred for 30 min. Isolated solid was filtered and washed with n hexane 200 ml . Product was dried under vacuum at 70 80 C. for 10 12 h to give 4 amino 1H indazole as a brown solid 114 g 70 m.p. 136 143 C. H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 12 br 1H 8.0 s 1H 7.1 7.0 dd 2H 6.5 d 1H 3.9 m 2H . ESMS m z 134 M 1 . Purity 90 95 HPLC 

Step C Preparation of 4 iodo 1H indazole A mixture of 4 amino 1H indazole 50.0 g 0.375 moles in water 100 ml and con. hydrochloric acid 182 ml was cooled to 10 C. To this a solution of sodium nitrite 51.7 g 0.75 moles in water 75 ml was added drop wise at 10 C. in about 30 60 min. during addition frothing was observed . In another flask a mixture of potassium iodide 311 g 1.87 moles in water 3000 ml was prepared at room temperature and to this above cooled diazonium salt at 30 40 C. was added in about 30 40 min. The reaction was maintained at 30 C. for 1 h and after completion of reaction ethyl acetate 500 ml was added and the reaction mixture was filtered through Celite. The layers were separated and the aq. layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 500 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with 5 hypo solution 2 500 ml brine 500 ml dried NaSO and concentrated. Crude product was purified by chromatography silica gel hexane 15 20 ethyl acetate hexane to furnish 4 iodo 1H indazole as an orange solid 23.0 g 25 . m.p 151 177 C H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 12.4 br 1H 8.0 s 1H 7.6 dd 2H 7.1 d 1H . ESMS m z 245 M 1 . Purity 95 98 HPLC .

Step D Preparation of 4 iodo 1 2 tetrahydropyranyl indazole A mixture of 4 amino 1H indazole 250.0 g 1.024 moles 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 126.0 g 1.5 moles and PPTS 2.57 g 0.01 moles in CHCl 1250 ml was heated to 50 C. for 2 h. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and poured into water 625 ml the layers were separated and aqueous layer was extracted with CHCl 250 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with water 625 ml dried NaSO and concentrated. Crude residue was purified by chromatography silica gel hexane 5 10 ethyl acetate hexane to furnish 4 iodo 1 2 tetrahydropyranyl indazole as an oil 807.0 g 60 . H NMR 200 MHz CDCl 8.5 s 1H 7.8 m 1H 7.6 d 1H 7.25 m 1H 5.7 dd 1H 4.2 3.8 dd 1H 2.2 2.0 m 4H 2.0 1.8 m 4H . ESMS m z 329 M 1 .

Step E Preparation of 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole A mixture of 4 iodo 1 2 tetrahydropyranyl indazole 100 g 0.304 moles bispinacalotodiborane 96.4 g 0.381 moles PdCl dppf 8.91 g 0.012 moles and potassium acetate 85.97 g 0.905 moles in DMSO 500 ml were heated to 80 C. for 2 3 h. After completion reaction was cooled to room temperature and water 1500 ml was added. Reaction mass was extracted into ethyl acetate 3 200 ml and combined organic layers were evaporated dried NaSO and concentrated. Crude product was purified by column chromatography silica gel hexane 5 10 ethyl acetate hexane to obtain 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 2 yl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 62 as viscous brown oil 70.0 g 70 . 5 H NMR CDCl 8.5 s 1H 7.8 m 1H 7.6 d 1H 7.25 m 1H 5.7 dd 1H 4.2 3.8 dd 1H 2.2 2.0 m 4H 2.0 1.8 m 4H 1.4 1.2 s 12H . ESMS m z 329 M 1 .

A solution of 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 2 carbaldehyde 43 1.0 g 3.5 mmol in MeOH 30 mL at 0 C. was treated with NaBH 0.1 g 3.5 mmol . The solution was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred 15 min. The reaction mixture was quenched with a mixture of a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate and water 1 1 v v . The aqueous solution was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl methanol 56 required no further purification.

To a solution of 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl methanol 56 100 mg 0.4 mmol in benzene 3.0 mL at 0 C. was added PBr 30 L 0.4 mmol . The reaction was heated at reflux for 1 hour. After cooling to room temperature the reaction was quenched by the addition of water. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude 4 2 bromomethyl 5 chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 57 did not require further purification x mg x . MS Q1 M 

To a solution of 4 2 bromomethyl 5 chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 57 in DMF was added KCO and phthalimide. The resulting solution stirred 20 h at room temperature. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo and diluted with water 10 mL . The heterogeneous mixture was filtered to afford 2 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl methyl isoindoline 1 3 dione 58.

To a solution of 24 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl methyl isoindoline 1 3 dione 58 100 mg 0.24 mmol in MeOH 7 mL was added HN NH.HO. The reaction was heated at reflux for 1 h. After cooling to room temperature the reaction was quenched with water 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organics were dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo to afford 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl methanamine 59.

To 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 2 carbaldehyde 43 in 50 mL Toluene and 50 mL THF was added 30 mL of NHMe 40 in water and the mixture stirred under Nfor two days. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo and redissolved in 50 mL THF and 50 mL MeOH followed by the portionwise addition of 1.6 g 4.0 eq NaBHand the reaction mixture stirred overnight at room temperature. Complete reaction was confirmed by LCMS and the mixture was concentrated in vacuo and purified by flash chromatography 95 5 EtOAc EtOH 20 min followed by a gradient up to 100 EtOH over 30 min more to give 1 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl N methylmethanamine 60.

Also to a solution of 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 2 carbaldehyde 44 in 50 mL THF was added 20 mL of 40 methylamine in water. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature under Nfor 24 hours. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in 50 mL MeOH and 50 mL THF and the NaBHadded portion wise. This reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature under Nfor 24 hours and complete reaction was confirmed by LCMS. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the crude product purified by flash chromatography EtOAc EtOH to give of 1 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl N methylmethanamine 61.

Following the procedures in U.S. Pat. No. 6 492 383 2.5 M of n butyllithium 9.4 mL 22.48 mmol in hexane solution was added to a mixture of 4 5 chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 16 3.0 g 11.74 mmol in 60 mL of THF at 78 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 40 C. and stirred for 30 min. A solution of iodine 6.0 g 23.48 mmol in 10 mL of THF was added dropwise. After the addition was completed. The reaction mixture was brought to room temperature and stirred for 2 h. The mixture was quenched by diluting with dichloromethane and extracting with HO 2 100 mL . The organic layer was washed with NaSO 2 100 mL HO 2 100 mL dried over MgSO filtered and evaporated to afford 4 5 chloro 2 iodothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 27.

To a solution of ethyl 2 phenyl 5 aminothiazole 4 carboxylate 116 mg 1.0 eq in dichloromethane 3 ml at 78 C. was added chlorosulfonyl isocyanate 0.06 ml 1.3 eq dropwise Redman et al J. 2000 Org. Lett. 2 2061 2063 . The reaction was slowly warmed to room temperature and stirred for 40 minutes. The reaction was concentrated. To the residue was added 6N HCl 2.5 ml and mixture was heated to 100 C. for 20 minutes. Reaction mixture was allowed to cool down to room temperature and was neutralized with saturated aq. NaHCO. Solid was collected by filtration to yield ethyl 2 phenyl 5 ureidothiazole 4 carboxylate 63 as a beige solid which was used in the next reaction without further purification.

Ethyl 2 phenyl 5 ureidothiazole 4 carboxylate 63 x mg x eq was suspended in methanol 5 ml and treated with 1.5 M NaOH 1 ml . Reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 90 minutes. Reaction mixture was allowed to cool down to room temperature and was acidified with 6N HCl up to pH 3. Solid was filtered and dried at 95 C. under high vacuum for 24 h to yield 2 phenylthiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 5 7 diol 64 as a beige solid which was used in the next reaction without further purification.

2 Phenylthiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 5 7 diol 64 was dissolved in POCl xml . Mixture was cooled to 40 C. and N N diisopropylethylamine is slowly added. Reaction mixture was then heated to reflux for 48 h then cooled to room temperature. The reaction mixture was poured into ice water. Mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aq. NaHCO dried NaSO and concentrated to yield 5 7 dichloro 2 phenylthiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 65 which was used in the next reaction without further purification.

5 7 Dichloro 2 phenylthiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 65 was suspended in methanol and treated with morpholine. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. Solid was filtered to yield pure 4 5 chloro 2 phenylthiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 66 as a beige solid.

To a solution of 4 5 chlorothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 14 dissolved in THF at 78 C. was added 1.6M solution of n butyllithium in hexanes . The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 30 minutes. A solution of iodine in THF was added and reaction mixture was allowed to slowly warm up to room temperature and stirred for 45 minutes. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aq. NaSO and extracted with dichloromethane. The combined organic layers were dried NaSO and concentrated. The crude reaction mixture was purified by flash chromatography to yield 4 5 chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18.

4 5 Chlorothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 14 was slurried in tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 78 C. under nitrogen. Two equivalents of 2M lithium diisopropylamide in heptane tetrahydrofuran ethylbenzene was added slowly and the solution was stirred for 30 minutes. Acetone 6 eq was added and the solution was stirred at 78 C. for an additional one hour. Ice was added and the solution was warmed to room temperature before extraction with methylene chloride. The organic layer was dried with sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified on silica gel to give the light yellow solid of 2 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl propan 2 ol 68.

A mixture of 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 2 carbaldehyde 43 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H indazole 1 and sodium carbonate were suspended in toluene ethanol and water. To this was added bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride and the reaction vessel was flushed with argon. The reaction mixture was microwaved at 120 C. for 1 h and then partitioned between DCM and water. The organic layer was washed with brine dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified using flash chromatography to yield 5 1H indazol 4 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 2 carbaldehyde 55.

5 Chloro 2 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 74 90 mg was reacted with 100 mg of N Boc aminomethylpyridine boronate ester via General Procedure A to yield crude 5 2 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 5 yl pyridin 2 yl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 75 100 mg .

Crude 5 2 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 5 yl pyridin 2 yl methyl carbamic acid tert butyl ester 75 100 mg was dissolved in a solution of 1 mL of trifluoroacetic acid and 1 mL of dichloromethane. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h. The mixture was concentrated. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 53.8 mg of 101. MS Q1 505.2 M .

Tert butyl 5 bromopyridin 2 ylcarbamate 10 g and cesium carbonate 20 g were added to 50 mL of DMF. Methyl iodide 4 mL was subsequently slowly added to the stirring reaction mixture. After 30 minutes tlc indicates that the reaction is complete. The majority of the DMF was removed under hi vacuum and the reaction mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was dried filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by Isco 0 30 gradient WE over 25 mins. The tubes were pooled and concentrated to get 9.85 g of tert butyl 5 bromopyridin 2 yl methyl carbamate as a clear oil.

To a solution of 9.5 g tert butyl 5 bromopyridin 2 yl methyl carbamate in 60 mL DMSO was added 13 g bi pinacolatodiboron 9.7 g KOAc and 1.4 g 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II complex with dichloromethane 1 1 and the reaction was heated at 80 C. overnight. Next day the LC MS shows starting material is consumed and reaction is complete. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and then added to water and extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was dried filtered and concentrated to give a black oil. The crude material was purified in 2 batches via 120 g chromatography ISCO columns. The fractions were pooled and concentrated to give crystalline white solid. NMR shows 30 residual bispinnacolatodiboron and the rest is desired tert butyl 5 bromopyridin 2 yl methyl carbamate. This mixture is used in subsequent Suzuki couplings.

Crude 4 5 chloro 2 2 methoxypropan 2 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 60 mg was reacted with tert butyl methyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 2 yl carbamate via general procedure A. This crude product was then treated with TFA to remove residual protecting group and purified via reverse phase HPLC to get 58.4 mg 102. MS Q1 401.2 M .

Crude 4 5 chloro 2 2 methoxypropan 2 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 60 mg was reacted with 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino methylpyrimidine 5 boronic acid via general procedure A. This crude product was then treated with TFA to remove residual protecting group and purified via reverse phase HPLC to get 43.8 mg 103. MS Q1 402.2 M .

2 5 Chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl propan 2 ol 68 175 mg was cooled in DMF to 0 C. and then NaH was added at once. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred several minutes before addition of methyl iodide. Reaction was stirred several hours and monitored by LC MS until complete. Ethyl acetate was added and the solution was extracted with saturated bicarbonate solution. Organic was collected and dried filtered and concentrated to get crude 4 5 chloro 2 2 methoxypropan 2 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine.

Crude 4 5 chloro 2 2 methoxypropan 2 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 60 mg was reacted with 2 aminopyrimidine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester via general procedure A with to get 55 mg 104 following reverse phase HPLC purification. MS Q1 388.2 M .

A mixture of 4 5 chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 400 mg 1 mmol 3 methylsulfonylphenylboronic acid 230 mg 1.1 mmol bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 37 mg 0.052 mmol in 4 ml of acetonitrile and 4 mL of 1.0 M of sodium carbonate aqueous solution was heated to 100 C. in the microwave for 10 min. Water 5 mL was added and the resulting solid was filtered and washed with water and ethyl acetate to yield crude 5 chloro 2 3 methanesulfonyl phenyl 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 400 mg .

5 Chloro 2 3 methanesulfonyl phenyl 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 100 mg was reacted with 98 mg of N Boc aminomethylpyridine boronate ester via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 33 mg of 105. MS Q1 483.2 M .

A mixture of 5 chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl 2 piperazin 1 ylmethyl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine with HCl salt 1 g 2.6 mmol L lactic acid 460 mg 5.1 mmol HATU 1.9 g 5.1 mmol and N N diisopropylethylamine 1.4 mL 7.8 mmol in 8 mL of DMF was stirred overnight. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate aqueous solution and brine. The organic layer was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated to yield the crude 1 4 5 Chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 ylmethyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxy propan 1 one 900 mg .

1 4 5 Chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 ylmethyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxy propan 1 one 100 mg was reacted with 72 mg of 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl quinoline via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 43.5 mg of 106. MS Q1 520.3 Mr.

Methyl iodide 390 L 6.2 mmol was added to a mixture of 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino pyrimidine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester 1 g 3 mmol and cesium carbonate 2.0 mg 6.2 mmol in N N dimethylformamide 15 mL 190 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. Water 20 mL was added. The mixture was neutralized to pH 7 using 1N HCl then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 60 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and evaporated to yield crude 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino methylpyrimidine 5 boronic acid 560 mg .

1 4 5 Chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 ylmethyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxy propan 1 one 80 mg was reacted with 56 mg of 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino methylpyrimidine 5 boronic acid via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 24.1 mg of 107. MS Q1 500.3 M .

1 4 5 Chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 ylmethyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxy propan 1 one 100 mg was reacted with 62 mg of 2 aminopyrimidine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 28 mg of 108. MS Q1 486.2 M .

5 Chloro 2 3 methanesulfonyl phenyl 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 80 mg was reacted with 54 mg of 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 41.8 mg of 109. MS Q1 493.2 M .

5 Chloro 2 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 a pyrimidine 80 mg was reacted with 55 mg of dimethyl 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 yl amine via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 10.3 mg of 110. MS Q1 520.2 M .

5 Chloro 2 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 80 mg was reacted with 49 mg of 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 2 ylamine via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 24.3 mg of 111. MS Q1 491.0 M .

5 Chloro 2 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 130 mg was reacted with 92 mg of 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl quinoline via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 72.6 mg of 112. MS Q1 526.2 M .

5 Chloro 2 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 80 mg was reacted with 56 mg of 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino methylpyrimidine 5 boronic acid via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 17.3 mg of 113. MS Q1 506.2 M .

A mixture of 4 5 chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 400 mg 1 mmol 3 methanesulphonylaminomethyl benzeneboronic acid 260 mg 1.1 mmol bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 37 mg 0.052 mmol in 4 ml of acetonitrile and 4 mL of 1.0 M of sodium carbonate aqueous solution was heated to 100 C. in a microwave for 10 min. Water 5 mL was added and the resulting solid was filtered and washed with water and ethyl acetate to yield crude N 3 5 Chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl benzyl methanesulfonamide 400 mg .

N 3 5 Chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl benzyl methanesulfonamide 100 mg was reacted with 100 mg of 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino methylpyrimidine 5 boronic acid via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 114. MS Q1 513.2 M .

N 3 5 Chloro 7 morpholin 4 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl benzyl methanesulfonamide 120 mg was reacted with 80 mg of 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine via General Procedure A. The product was purified by reverse phase HPLC to yield 45 mg of 115. MS Q1 522.2 M .

5 Chloro 2 4 methylsulfonylpiperazin 1 yl methyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 1H pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridin 5 yl boronic acid 1.2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 130 C. for 15 minutes. Acetonitrile was added and the solution was filtered. The resulting organic layer was purified by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to give the product 116.

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 was reacted with 4 morpholinoaniline via General Procedure B to give after purification 5 chloro 7 morpholino N 4 morpholinophenyl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 amine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure B again to give 117 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 492 M 

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 was reacted with 4 methylsulfonylaniline via General Procedure B to give after purification 5 chloro N 4 methylsulfonyl phenyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 amine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure B again to give 118 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 485 M 

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 was reacted with aniline via General Procedure B to give after purification 5 chloro 7 morpholino N phenylthiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 amine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure B again to give 119 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 407 M 

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 was reacted with 5 methylsulfonyl pyridin 3 yl 3 boronic acid via General Procedure A to give crude 5 chloro 2 5 methylsulfonyl pyridin 3 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A again to give 120 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 471 M 

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 was reacted with 3 methylsulfonylamino phenylboronic acid via General Procedure A to give crude 3 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl N methylsulfonylbenzenamine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A again to give 121 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 485 M 

5 Chloro 2 4 methylsulfonylpiperazin 1 yl methyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 5 pyrimidine 2 amine boronic acid 1.2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 130 C. for 8 minutes. The solvents were removed and the resulting residue was purified by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to give 122.

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 was reacted with 4 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 2 yl morpholine via General Procedure A to give crude 5 chloro 7 morpholino 2 6 morpholinopyridin 3 yl thiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A again to give 123 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 478 M 

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 was reacted with 3 acetylaminophenyl boronic acid via General Procedure A to give crude N 3 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl phenyl acetamide which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A again to give 124. MS Q1 449 M 

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 was reacted with N methylsulfonyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl benzenamine via General Procedure A to give crude 4 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl N methylsulfonylbenzenamine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A again to give 125 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 485 M 

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 was reacted with 3 methylsulfonylamino methyl phenylboronic acid via General Procedure A to give crude 3 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl phenyl N methylsulfonylmethanamine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A again to give 126 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 499 M 

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 was reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 2 amine via General Procedure A to give crude 5 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl pyridin 2 amine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A again to give 127 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 408 M 

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 18 was reacted with 4 methoxypyridin 3 yl 3 boronic acid via General Procedure A to give crude 5 chloro 2 4 methoxypyridin 3 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A again to give 128 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 423 M 

5 Chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine was slurried in tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 78 C. under nitrogen. Two equivalents of 2M lithium diisopropylamide in heptane tetrahydrofuran ethylbenzene was added slowly and the solution was stirred for 30 minutes dimethylformamide 6 eq was added and the solution was stirred at 78 C. for an additional one hour. The solution was warmed to 0 C. and ice cold 0.1N hydrochloric acid was added and the solution was warmed to room temperature before extraction with methylene chloride. The organic layer was dried with sodium sulfate and concentrated to give 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 2 carbaldehyde.

5 Chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 2 carbaldehyde was dissolved in dichloroethane with 1 methylsulfonylpiperazine hydrochloride 1.45 eq sodium acetate 1.45 eq and trimethylorthoformate 1.45 eq . The solution was stirred overnight. Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 1.35 eq was added and after three hours at room temperature the reaction was quenched with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The aqueous was extracted with methylene chloride dried with sodium sulfate and purified by silica gel chromatography to give 5 chloro 2 4 methylsulfonylpiperazin 1 yl methyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine.

5 Chloro 2 4 methylsulfonylpiperazin 1 yl methyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine 1H indazol 4 yl 4 boronic acid 1.2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were combined in a solution of equal parts sodium carbonate aqueous solution 1M 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 130 C. for eighteen minutes. An additional 0.1 equivalents of trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II was added and the solution was microwaved at 130 C. for an additional twenty minutes. Acetonitrile was added and the solution was filtered. The organic layer was purified by reverse phase chromatography to give the off white solid of 129.

2 5 Chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 2 yl propan 2 ol 5 pyrimidine 2 amine boronic acid 68 1.2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate aqueous solution 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 130 C. for 15 minutes. The solution was evaporated to dryness and purified by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to give the product 130.

4 5 Chlorothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 14 was reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A to give 131 after purification by reverse HPLC.

5 Chloro 2 iodo 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine was reacted with 3 methylsulfonyl phenylboronic acid via General Procedure A to give crude 5 chloro 2 3 methylsulfonyl phenyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 5 4 d pyrimidine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure A again to give 132 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 470 M 

5 Chloro 2 methylsulfonyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine was reacted with 2 methylsulfonyl ethanamine HCl salt using 2.8 equiv of triethylamine via General Procedure C to give crude 5 chloro N 2 methylsulfonyl ethyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 amine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure C again to give 133 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 437 M 

5 Chloro 2 methylsulfonyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine was reacted with 2 piperazin 1 yl ethanol via General Procedure C to give crude 2 4 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl piperazin 1 yl ethanol which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure C again to give 134 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 444 M 

5 Chloro 2 methylsulfonyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine was reacted with 1 methylsulfonylpiperazine HCl salt using 2.8 equiv of triethylamine via General Procedure C to give crude 5 chloro 2 4 methylsulfonylpiperazin 1 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure C again to give 135 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 478 M 

5 Chloro 2 methylsulfonyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine was reacted with 2 morpholinoethanamine via General Procedure C to give crude 5 chloro 7 morpholino N 2 morpholinoethyl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 amine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidin 2 amine via General Procedure C again to give 136 after purification by reverse HPLC. MS Q1 444 M 

5 Chloro 2 methylsulfonyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine was slurried in dry methanol tetrahydrofuran 1 10 . The solution was cooled to 0 C. under nitrogen and sodium borohydride 1.1 eq was added in four portions. The solution was stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. An additional 0.1 eq sodium borohydride was added if necessary. The solvent was removed under vacuum and the resulting residue was purified by silica gel chromatography isocratic 1 1 methylene chloride ethylacetate. The resulting white solid of 4 5 chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 16 was isolated.

4 5 Chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 16 was slurried in tetrahydrofuran and cooled to 78 C. under nitrogen. Two equivalents of 2M lithium diisopropylamide in heptane tetrahydrofuran ethylbenzene were added slowly and the solution was stirred for 30 minutes. Acetone 6 eq was added and the solution was stirred at 78 C. for an additional one hour. Ice was added and the solution was warmed to room temperature before extraction with methylene chloride. The organic layer was dried with sodium sulfate and concentrated. The resulting residue was purified on silica gel to give the light yellow solid of 2 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl propan 2 ol.

2 5 Chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl propan 2 ol 5 pyrimidine 2 amine boronic acid 1.2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate aqueous solution 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 130 C. for 15 minutes. The solution was evaporated to dryness and purified by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to give the product 137.

5 Chloro 2 methylthio 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine was combined with 4 tributylstannyl thiazole 1.1 eq cesium fluoride 2 eq copper iodide 2 eq tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0.1 eq in dimethylformamide and microwaved 110 C. for 15 minutes. Methylene chloride was added the solution was filtered through silica washing with methanol. The organic layer was evaporated to dryness and the resulting residue was purified by silica gel chromatography to yield 5 chloro 7 morpholino 2 thiazol 4 yl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine as a pale yellow solid.

5 Chloro 7 morpholino 2 thiazol 4 yl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 5 pyrimidine 2 amine boronic acid 1.2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 130 C. for 15 minutes. Acetonitrile was added and the solution was filtered. The resulting organic layer was purified by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to give the product 138. MS data ESI MH 399.

In 150 mL methylene chloride 4 amino 2 methylthio 5 thiazolcarboxylic acid methyl ester 0.05 mol was dissolved and cooled to 78 C. under nitrogen gas. Stirring 0.07 mol 1.4 eq of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate was added slowly to give a brown solution. The reaction was warmed slowly to 0 C. and a white precipitate forms. After 30 minutes the solution was evaporated under vacuum resuspended in 40 mL of 6N hydrochloric acid 4 eq and heated to 100 C. After 30 minutes the solution was cooled to room temp neutralized with saturated sodium carbonate followed by saturated sodium bicarbonate. The white solid was isolated by filtration to give methyl 2 methylthio 4 ureidothiazole 5 carboxylate 76.

Methyl 2 methylthio 4 ureidothiazole 5 carboxylate was suspended in 2 M ammonia in methanol 100 eq . The solution was refluxed overnight cooled to room temperature and filtered on larger scale this reaction has been run in a sealed tube . The resulting white solid 2 methylthio thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 5 7 diol 77 was triturated with benzene and dried on high vacuum overnight.

To 2 methylthio thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 5 7 diol 77 phosphoroxidchloride 25 eq was added and the resulting solution was cooled to 40 C. Diisopropylethylamine 6 eq was added slowly. The solution was then heated to 120 C. overnight to give a brown solution. The solution was cooled to room temperature and poured into ice water. Ammonium hydroxide 28 solution was added to achieve a neutral pH. The solution was extracted with ethyl acetate dried with sodium sulfate anhydrous and concentrated. The crude brown solid was slurried in methanol and morpholine 6 eq was added. The solution was stirred at room temperature for 30 min solvent was removed under vacuum and ethyl acetate was added. The organic was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. Both the precipitate and the organic layers contained product and were subjected to silica gel chromatography to yield 5 chloro 2 methylthio 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 78 and 5 chloro 2 7 dimorpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 79.

5 Chloro 2 7 dimorpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 79 5 pyrimidine 2 amine boronic acid 1.2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 150 C. for 10 minutes. An additionally 0.1 equivalents of trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II was added and the solution was microwaved an additional 10 minutes at 150 C. Water was added and the solution was filtered. The resulting precipitate was purified by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to give 139.

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 27 3 acetamido phenyl boronic acid 1.2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate aqueous solution 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 90 C. for 10 minutes. Water was added and the solution was filtered. The aqueous layer was dried and combined with 5 pyrimidine 2 amine boronic acid 1.2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq and slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate aqueous solution 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 150 C. for 10 minutes. Water was added and the solution was filtered. The resulting precipitate was purified by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to yield 140.

4 5 Chlorothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 16 was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran and iodine 3 eq was added. The solution was cooled to 50 C. and potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide 1.2 eq of 0.5M solution in toluene was added over a period of 10 minutes. The solution was warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight. Water was added to quench the reaction and the tetrahydrofuran was removed in vacuo. The residue was brought up in methylene chloride washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and dried with magnesium sulfate. The solution was concentrated a purified by silica gel chromatography to yield 4 5 chloro 2 iodothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 27.

4 5 Chloro 2 iodothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 7 yl morpholine 27 was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran and combined with triethylamine 1 methylsulfonylpiperazine hydrochloride 2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq . The solution was flushed with carbon monoxide stirred under a carbon monoxide balloon at 55 C. overnight. The solution was cooled to room temperature. Water was added and the solution was filtered to yield the tan product of 5 chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl 4 methylsulfonylpiperazin 1 yl methanone.

 5 Chloro 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 yl 4 methylsulfonylpiperazin 1 yl methanone 1H indazol 4 yl 4 boronic acid 2.5 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate aqueous solution 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 140 C. for 10 minutes. Water was added and the solution was filtered. The resulting precipitate was washed with methylene chloride and the organic layer was purified by silica gel chromatography followed by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to give the product 141.

5 Chloro 2 iodo 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 3 methylsulfonyl phenyl boronic acid and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 90 C. for 10 minutes. Water was added and the solution was filtered. The aqueous layer was dried and combined with 5 pyrimidine 2 amine boronic acid 1.2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate aqueous solution 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 150 C. for 10 minutes. Water was added and the solution was filtered. The resulting precipitate was purified by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to yield 142.

5 Chloro 2 iodo 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 4 methoxypyridine 3 boronic acid hydrate and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate aqueous solution 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 100 C. for 10 minutes. Water was added and the solution was filtered to give the product 5 chloro 2 4 methoxypyridin 3 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine.

5 Chloro 2 4 methoxypyridin 3 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine combined with 5 pyridine 2 amine boronic acid 1.2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq and slurried with equal parts 1M sodium carbonate aqueous solution 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 150 C. for 10 minutes. The solution was dried in vacuo and purified by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to yield 143.

5 Chloro 2 methylthio 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine was dissolved in methanol. Oxone 2.2 eq was added in water 10 1 ratio methanol water . The solution was heated to 50 C. for 2.5 hours. One additional equivalent of oxone was added if needed and solution was stirred at 50 C. for an additional 1 hour. The solution was cooled to room temperature and methylene chloride was added. The resulting solid was filtered off and rinsed with methylene chloride. The organic solution was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution pH test neutral dried with magnesium sulfate and concentrated to yield 5 chloro 2 methylsulfonyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine.

5 Chloro 2 methylsulfonyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine was dissolved in tetrahydrofuran and 1 methyl 4 methylamine piperidine 1.2 eq was added slowly. The solution was stirred overnight and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in methylenechloride washed with saturated solution of saturated sodium bicarbonate and the organic layer was dried with magnesium sulfate. The resulting yellow oil was purified by silica gel chromatography to give 5 chloro N methyl N 1 methylpiperidin 4 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 amine as a yellow solid.

5 Chloro N methyl N 1 methylpiperidin 4 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 amine 2 aminopyridine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester 2 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M potassium acetate 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 140 C. for 10 minutes. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the resulting precipitate was purified by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to give the product 144.

Alternatively 5 chloro 2 methylsulfonyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine was reacted with 1 methyl 4 methylamino piperidine without triethylamine via General Procedure C to give crude 5 chloro N methyl N 1 methylpiperidin 4 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 amine which was then reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 2 amine via General Procedure C again to give 144 after purification by silica gel chromatography. MS Q1 441 M 

5 Chloro 2 methylsulfonyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 1.0 eq was dissolved in 1 2 dichloroethane 0.1 M . 1 methylsulfonylpiperazine 1.1 eq and sodium acetate 1.1 eq were added. The solution was stirred for 2 h at 70 C. and the solvent was removed in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography to give 5 chloro 2 4 methylsulfonylpiperazin 1 yl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine. This intermediate 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 2 amine 2.0 eq trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.10 eq 1M KOAc 3.0 eq and a 6 volume of acetonitrile were microwaved at 150 C. for 15 minutes. Upon completion reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and crude mixture was purified by silica gel chromatography to give 145. MS Q1 477 M 

5 Chloro 2 methylsulfonyl 7 morpholinothiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 1.0 eq and aniline 1.0 eq were heated in toluene at 60 C. for 15 h. Upon completion reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and crude mixture was purified by silica gel chromatography to give intermediate 5 chloro 7 morpholino N phenylthiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidin 2 amine which was reacted with 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin 2 amine 2.0 eq and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II dichloride 0.10 eq in 1M KOAc aqueous solution 3.0 eq and a 4 volume of acetonitrile and heated to 150 C. in a sealed microwave reactor for 10 min Upon completion reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and crude mixture was purified by silica gel chromatography to give 146. MS Q1 406 M 

5 Chloro 7 morpholino 2 thiazol 4 yl thiazolo 4 5 d pyrimidine 1H indazol 4 yl 4 boronic acid 2.5 eq and trans dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.1 eq were slurried with equal parts 1M potassium acetate 3 eq and acetonitrile. The solution was microwaved at 150 C. for 15 minutes. The solution filtered and the solution was dried in vacuo. The resulting residue was purified by reverse phase silica gel chromatography to give the product 147.

Binding Assays Initial polarization experiments were performed on an Analyst HT 96 384 Molecular Devices Corp Sunnyvale Calif. . Samples for fluorescence polarization affinity measurements were prepared by addition of 1 3 serial dilutions of p110alpha PI3K Upstate Cell Signaling Solutions Charlottesville Va. starting at a final concentration of 20 ug mL in polarization buffer 10 mM Tris pH 7.5 50 mM NaCl 4 mM MgCl 0.05 Chaps and 1 mM DTT to 10 mM PIP Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. final concentration. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume Proxiplates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the protein concentration and the ECvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation using KaleidaGraph software Synergy software Reading Pa. . This experiment also establishes the appropriate protein concentration to use in subsequent competition experiments with inhibitors.

Inhibitor ICvalues were determined by addition of the 0.04 mg mL p110alpha PI3K final concentration combined with PIP 10 mM final concentration to wells containing 1 3 serial dilutions of the antagonists in a final concentration of 25 mM ATP Cell Signaling Technology Inc. Danvers Mass. in the polarization buffer. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah. 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume proxi plates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the antagonist concentration and the ICvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation in Assay Explorer software MDL San Ramon Calif. .

Alternatively inhibition of PI3K was determined in a radiometric assay using purified recombinant enzyme and ATP at a concentration of 1 uM. The compound was serially diluted in 100 DMSO. The kinase reaction was incubated for 1 h at room temperature and the reaction was terminated by the addition of PBS. ICvalues were subsequently determined using sigmoidal dose response curve fit variable slope .

The ability of Formula Ia and Ib compounds from Table 1 to inhibit the lipid kinase activity of purified preparations of human PI3K isoforms alpha beta delta and gamma is determined by a radiometric scintillation proximity assay SPA GE Healthcare Amersham Biosciences . Concentration dependent inhibition at 50 IC Mol is determined for all four isoforms alpha and fold potency over beta delta and gamma relative to alpha may be calculated.

Efficacy of Formula Ia and Ib compounds were measured by a cell proliferation assay employing the following protocol Promega Corp. Technical Bulletin TB288 Mendoza et al 2002 Cancer Res. 62 5485 5488 

Alternatively cells are seeded at optimal density in a 96 well plate and incubated for 4 days in the presence of test compound. Alamar Blue was subsequently added to the assay medium and cells were incubated for 6 h before reading at 544 nm excitation 590 nm emission. ECvalues were calculated using a sigmoidal dose response curve fit.

Caco 2 cells are seeded onto Millipore Multiscreen plates at 1 10cells cm and cultured for 20 days. Assessment of compound permeability is subsequently conducted. The compounds are applied to the apical surface A of cell monolayers and compound permeation into the basolateral B compartment was measured. This is performed in the reverse direction B A to investigate active transport. A permeability coefficient value P for each compound a measure of the rate of permeation of the compound across the membrane is calculated. Compounds are grouped into low P 1.0 10cm s absorption potential based on comparison with control compounds with established human absorption.

Suspensions of cryopreserved human hepatocytes are used. Incubations are performed at compound concentration of 1 mM or 3 M at a cell density of 0.5 10viable cells mL. The final DMSO concentration in the incubation is about 0.25 . Control incubations are also performed in the absence of cells to reveal any non enzymatic degradation. Duplicate samples 50 L are removed from the incubation mixture at 0 5 10 20 40 and 60 minutes control sample at 60 minutes only and added to methanol containing internal standard 100 L to terminate the reaction. Tolbutamide 7 hydroxycoumarin and testosterone may be used as control compounds. Samples are centrifuged and the supernatants at each time point pooled for analysis by LC MSMS. From a plot of ln peak area ratio parent compound peak area internal standard peak area against time intrinsic clearance CL is calculated as follows CL l min million cells V k where k is the elimination rate constant obtained from the gradient of ln concentration plotted against time V is a volume term derived from the incubation volume and is expressed as L 10cells.

Compounds of the invention may be screened against CYP450 targets e.g. 1A2 2C9 2C19 2D6 3A4 at 10 concentrations in duplicate with a top concentration of 100 uM being used. Standard inhibitors furafylline sulfaphenazole tranylcypromine quinidine ketoconazole are used as controls. Plates are read using a BMG LabTechnologies PolarStar in fluorescence mode.

Freshly isolated human hepatocytes from a single donor may be cultured for 48 h prior to addition of test compound at three concentrations and incubated for 72 h. Probe substrates for CYP3A4 and CYP1A2 are added for 30 minutes and 1 h before the end of the incubation. At 72 h cells and media are removed and the extent of metabolism of each probe substrate quantified by LC MS MS. The experiment is controlled by using inducers of the individual P450s incubated at one concentration in triplicate to determine the extent of induction of cytochrome P450 enzymes.

Solutions of test compound 5 um 0.5 final DMSO concentration are prepared in buffer and 10 plasma v v in buffer . A 96 well HT dialysis plate is assembled so that each well is divided in two by a semi permeable cellulose membrane. The buffer solution is added to one side of the membrane and the plasma solution to the other side incubations are then conducted at 37 C. over 2 h in triplicate. The cells are subsequently emptied and the solutions for each batch of compounds are combined into two groups plasma free and plasma containing then analyzed by LC MSMS using two sets of calibration standards for plasma free 6 points and plasma containing solutions 7 points . The fraction unbound value for the compounds of Table 1 is calculated as highly protein bound compounds 1 90 bound had an Fu

The compounds of Tables 1 may be evaluated for modulation of rubidium efflux from HEK 294 cells stably expressing hERG potassium channels using established flux methodology. Cells are prepared in medium containing RbCl and plated into 96 well plates and grown overnight to form monolayers. The efflux experiment is initiated by aspirating the media and washing each well with 3 100 pt of pre incubation buffer containing low K at room temperature. Following the final aspiration 50 L of working stock 2 compound is added to each well and incubated at room temperature for 10 minutes. 50 L of stimulation buffer containing high K is then added to each well giving the final test compound concentrations. Cell plates are then incubated at room temperature for a further 10 minutes and 80 L of supernatant from each well is then transferred to equivalent wells of a 96 well plate and analyzed via atomic emission spectroscopy. The compound is screened as 10 pt duplicate ICcurves n 2 from a top concentration of 100 M.

The foregoing description is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and process shown as described above. Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be considered to fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow.

The words comprise comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and in the following claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers components steps or groups thereof.

