---

title: Methods of treating pulmonary hypertension
abstract: Methods of treating pulmonary hypertension are disclosed. Particular methods comprise the administration of a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor and a prostacyclin. Pharmaceutical formulations are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08410121&OS=08410121&RS=08410121
owner: Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
number: 08410121
owner_city: The Woodlands
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110114
---
This appiication is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 169 815 filed Jul. 9 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 875 622 which claims priority to U.S. provisional application no. 60 949 040 filed Jul. 11 2007 the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to methods and compositions for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension and related diseases and disorders.

Pulmonary hypertension PH or pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH is a disease characterized by increased pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance. 15th ed. pp. 1506 1507 McGraw Hill 2001 . Left untreated PH usually has a dismal prognosis culminating in right ventricular failure and death. Ulrich S. et al. 137 73 82 73 2007 .

In 2003 the World Health Organization WHO sponsored the development of guidelines called the Venice classification which are now used to classify types of PH. http www.tracleer.com default.asp page CouldHave WHO accessed Jun. 29 2007 . The first type WHO Group 1.1 is idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension IPAH . This refers to PAH that occurs at random without an apparent cause. IPAH used to be called primary pulmonary hypertension or PPH. Id.

The second type WHO Group 1.2 is familial pulmonary arterial hypertension FPAH . With this type of PAH a faulty gene is passed on through the family which causes the PAH to develop over time. It is estimated that at least 6 to 10 percent of PAH cases occur in families where at least one other person has had the disease. Id.

The third type WHO Group 1.3 is pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with other diseases or conditions APAH . This used to be called PAH secondary to other conditions or Secondary PAH. This category includes PAH associated with collagen vascular disease or connective tissue disease e.g. scleroderma SSc including CREST syndrome lupus SLE congenital systemic to pulmonary shunts congenital heart disease portal hypertension HIV infection drugs and toxins and other diseases and disorders e.g. thyroid disorders glycogen storage diseases Gaucher disease hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia hemoglobinopathies myeloproliferative disorders splenectomy . Id.

The fourth type WHO Group 1.4 is pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with significant venous or capillary involvement and includes pulmonary veno occlusive disease PVOD and pulmonary capillary hemangiomatosis PCH .

Drugs currently used to treat PH include pulmonary vasodilators calcium channel blockers and inhibitors of platelet aggregation. 17th ed. pp. 1703 4 Merck Research Laboratories 1999 . Diuretics nitric oxide phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors e.g. sildenafil and endothelin receptor antagonists ERAs are also used for its treatment. Ulrich S. et al. 137 73 82 76 77 2007 . Endothelin receptor antagonists work by binding to the ETand or ETreceptor sites in the endothelium and vasculature smooth muscle thereby preventing the neurohormone endothelin 1 ET 1 from binding to these same receptor sites and triggering vasoconstriction. Id. at 76 77. An example of an ERA is bosentan TRACLEER .

Other methods of treating PH have been investigated. For example selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors SSRIs reportedly reverse PH in rats. Id. at 79. These compounds which are widely used to treat depression affect the reuptake of the neurotransmitter serotonin 5 HT .

Serotonin is synthesized in two steps from the amino acid tryptophan. 10ed. p. 270 McGraw Hill 2001 . The first step is rate limiting and is catalyzed by the enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase TPH which has two known isoforms TPH1 which is expressed in the periphery and TPH2 which is expressed primarily in the brain. Walther D. J. et al. 299 76 2003 . Mice genetically deficient for the tph1 gene knockout mice have been reported. In one case the mice reportedly expressed normal amounts of serotonin in classical serotonergic brain regions but largely lacked serotonin in the periphery. Id. In another the knockout mice exhibited abnormal cardiac activity which was attributed to a lack of peripheral serotonin. C t F. et al. 100 23 13525 13530 2003 . Recently TPH knockout mice were studied in a hypoxia induced pulmonary arterial hypertension model. Morecroft I. et al. Hypertension 49 232 236 2007 . The results of those studies suggest that TPH1 and peripheral serotonin play an essential role in the development of hypoxia induced elevations in pulmonary pressures and hypoxia induced pulmonary vascular remodeling. Id. at 232.

This invention is directed in part to methods of treating pulmonary hypertension and related diseases and disorders which comprise administering to a patient therapeutically effective amounts of a tryptophan hydroxylase TPH inhibitor and at least one other active pharmaceutical ingredient.

One embodiment encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of an endothelin receptor antagonist and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor.

Another encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of an anticoagulant and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor.

Another encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of a calcium channel blocker and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor.

Another encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of a prostacyclin and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor.

Another encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of nitric oxide or a nitric oxide precursor or releasing compound and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor.

Another encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of a phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor.

Another encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of a diuretic and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor.

Another encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of a platelet derived growth factor and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor.

The invention also encompasses pharmaceutical formulations e.g. single unit dosage forms comprising a TPH inhibitor and at least one other active pharmaceutical ingredient.

This invention is based in part on studies of tph1 knockout mice and the discovery of compounds that inhibit tryptophan hydroxylase e.g. TPH1 .

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkenyl means a straight chain branched and or cyclic hydrocarbon having from 2 to 20 e.g. 2 to 10 or 2 to 6 carbon atoms and including at least one carbon carbon double bond. Representative alkenyl moieties include vinyl allyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl isobutylenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 methyl 1 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butenyl 1 hexenyl 2 hexenyl 3 hexenyl 1 heptenyl 2 heptenyl 3 heptenyl 1 octenyl 2 octenyl 3 octenyl 1 nonenyl 2 nonenyl 3 nonenyl 1 decenyl 2 decenyl and 3 decenyl.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkyl means a straight chain branched and or cyclic cycloalkyl hydrocarbon having from 1 to 20 e.g. 1 to 10 or 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Alkyl moieties having from 1 to 4 carbons are referred to as lower alkyl. Examples of alkyl groups include methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl t butyl isobutyl pentyl hexyl isohexyl heptyl 4 4 dimethylpentyl octyl 2 2 4 trimethylpentyl nonyl decyl undecyl and dodecyl. Cycloalkyl moieties may be monocyclic or multicyclic and examples include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and adamantyl. Additional examples of alkyl moieties have linear branched and or cyclic portions e.g. 1 ethyl 4 methyl cyclohexyl . The term alkyl includes saturated hydrocarbons as well as alkenyl and alkynyl moieties.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkoxy means an O alkyl group. Examples of alkoxy groups include OCH OCHCH O CH CH O CH CH O CH CH and O CH CH.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkylaryl or alkyl aryl means an alkyl moiety bound to an aryl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkylheteroaryl or alkyl heteroaryl means an alkyl moiety bound to a heteroaryl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkylheterocycle or alkyl heterocycle means an alkyl moiety bound to a heterocycle moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkynyl means a straight chain branched or cyclic hydrocarbon having from 2 to 20 e.g. 2 to 20 or 2 to 6 carbon atoms and including at least one carbon carbon triple bond. Representative alkynyl moieties include acetylenyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 methyl 1 butynyl 4 pentynyl 1 hexynyl 2 hexynyl 5 hexynyl 1 heptynyl 2 heptynyl 6 heptynyl 1 octynyl 2 octynyl 7 octynyl 1 nonynyl 2 nonynyl 8 nonynyl 1 decynyl 2 decynyl and 9 decynyl.

Unless otherwise indicated the term aryl means an aromatic ring or an aromatic or partially aromatic ring system composed of carbon and hydrogen atoms. An aryl moiety may comprise multiple rings bound or fused together. Examples of aryl moieties include anthracenyl azulenyl biphenyl fluorenyl indan indenyl naphthyl phenanthrenyl phenyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro naphthalene and tolyl.

Unless otherwise indicated the term arylalkyl or aryl alkyl means an aryl moiety bound to an alkyl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the terms biohydrolyzable amide biohydrolyzable ester biohydrolyzable carbamate biohydrolyzable carbonate biohydrolyzable ureido and biohydrolyzable phosphate mean an amide ester carbamate carbonate ureido or phosphate respectively of a compound that either 1 does not interfere with the biological activity of the compound but can confer upon that compound advantageous properties in vivo such as uptake duration of action or onset of action or 2 is biologically inactive but is converted in vivo to the biologically active compound. Examples of biohydrolyzable esters include lower alkyl esters alkoxyacyloxy esters alkyl acylamino alkyl esters and choline esters. Examples of biohydrolyzable amides include lower alkyl amides a amino acid amides alkoxyacyl amides and alkylaminoalkyl carbonyl amides. Examples of biohydrolyzable carbamates include lower alkylamines substituted ethylenediamines aminoacids hydroxyalkylamines heterocyclic and heteroaromatic amines and polyether amines.

Unless otherwise indicated the terms halogen and halo encompass fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. Unless otherwise indicated the term heteroalkyl refers to an alkyl moiety e.g. linear branched or cyclic in which at least one of its carbon atoms has been replaced with a heteroatom e.g. N O or S .

Unless otherwise indicated the term heteroaryl means an aryl moiety wherein at least one of its carbon atoms has been replaced with a heteroatom e.g. N O or S . Examples include acridinyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzoisothiazolyl benzoisoxazolyl benzoquinazolinyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl furyl imidazolyl indolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl phthalazinyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyridazinyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrimidyl pyrrolyl quinazolinyl quinolinyl tetrazolyl thiazolyl and triazinyl.

Unless otherwise indicated the term heteroarylalkyl or heteroaryl alkyl means a heteroaryl moiety bound to an alkyl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the term heterocycle refers to an aromatic partially aromatic or non aromatic monocyclic or polycyclic ring or ring system comprised of carbon hydrogen and at least one heteroatom e.g. N O or S . A heterocycle may comprise multiple i.e. two or more rings fused or bound together. Heterocycles include heteroaryls. Examples include benzo 1 3 dioxolyl 2 3 dihydro benzo 1 4 dioxinyl cinnolinyl furanyl hydantoinyl morpholinyl oxetanyl oxiranyl piperazinyl piperidinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydropyrimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl and valerolactamyl.

Unless otherwise indicated the term heterocyclealkyl or heterocycle alkyl refers to a heterocycle moiety bound to an alkyl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the term heterocycloalkylalkyl or heterocycloalkyl alkyl refers to a heterocycloalkyl moiety bound to an alkyl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids or bases including inorganic acids and bases and organic acids and bases. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts include metallic salts made from aluminum calcium lithium magnesium potassium sodium and zinc or organic salts made from lysine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Suitable non toxic acids include inorganic and organic acids such as acetic alginic anthranilic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric ethenesulfonic formic fumaric furoic galacturonic gluconic glucuronic glutamic glycolic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic maleic malic mandelic methanesulfonic mucic nitric pamoic pantothenic phenylacetic phosphoric propionic salicylic stearic succinic sulfanilic sulfuric tartaric acid and p toluenesulfonic acid. Specific non toxic acids include hydrochloric hydrobromic phosphoric sulfuric and methanesulfonic acids. Examples of specific salts thus include hydrochloride and mesylate salts. Others are well known in the art. See e.g. 18ed. Mack Publishing Easton Pa. 1990 and 19ed. Mack Publishing Easton Pa. 1995 .

Unless otherwise indicated the term potent TPH1 inhibitor is a compound that has a TPH1 ICof less than about 10 M.

Unless otherwise indicated the term prodrug encompasses pharmaceutically acceptable esters carbonates thiocarbonates N acyl derivatives N acyloxyalkyl derivatives quaternary derivatives of tertiary amines N Mannich bases Schiff bases amino acid conjugates phosphate esters metal salts and sulfonate esters of compounds disclosed herein. Examples of prodrugs include compounds that comprise a biohydrolyzable moiety e.g. a biohydrolyzable amide biohydrolyzable carbamate biohydrolyzable carbonate biohydrolyzable ester biohydrolyzable phosphate or biohydrolyzable ureide analog . Prodrugs of compounds disclosed herein are readily envisioned and prepared by those of ordinary skill in the art. See e.g. Bundgaard A. Ed. Elseview 1985 Bundgaard H. Design and Application of Prodrugs Krosgaard Larsen and H. Bundgaard Ed. 1991 Chapter 5 p. 113 191 and Bundgaard H. 1992 8 1 38.

Unless otherwise indicated a prophylactically effective amount of a compound is an amount sufficient to prevent a disease or condition or one or more symptoms associated with the disease or condition or prevent its recurrence. A prophylactically effective amount of a compound is an amount of therapeutic agent alone or in combination with other agents which provides a prophylactic benefit in the prevention of the disease. The term prophylactically effective amount can encompass an amount that improves overall prophylaxis or enhances the prophylactic efficacy of another prophylactic agent.

Unless otherwise indicated the term protecting group or protective group when used to refer to part of a molecule subjected to a chemical reaction means a chemical moiety that is not reactive under the conditions of that chemical reaction and which may be removed to provide a moiety that is reactive under those conditions. Protecting groups are well known in the art. See e.g. Greene T. W. and Wuts P. G. M. 3ed. John Wiley Sons 1999 Larock R. C. 2ed. John Wiley Sons 1999 . Some examples include benzyl diphenylmethyl trityl Cbz Boc Fmoc methoxycarbonyl ethoxycarbonyl and pthalimido.

Unless otherwise indicated the term pseudohalogen refers to a polyatomic anion that resembles a halide ion in its acid base substitution and redox chemistry generally has low basicity and forms a free radical under atom transfer radical polymerization conditions. Examples of pseudohalogens include azide ions cyanide cyanate thiocyanate thiosulfate sulfonates and sulfonyl halides.

Unless otherwise indicated the term selective TPH1 inhibitor is a compound that has a TPH2 ICthat is at least about 10 times greater than its TPH1 IC.

Unless otherwise indicated the term serotonin mediated adverse effect refers to an adverse effect that is attributable to increased levels of peripheral 5 hydroxytryptamine 5 HT .

Unless otherwise indicated the term stereomerically enriched composition of a compound refers to a mixture of the named compound and its stereoisomer s that contains more of the named compound than its stereoisomer s . For example a stereoisomerically enriched composition of 5 butan 2 ol encompasses mixtures of S butan 2 ol and R butan 2 ol in ratios of e.g. about 60 40 70 30 80 20 90 10 95 5 and 98 2.

Unless otherwise indicated the term stereoisomeric mixture encompasses racemic mixtures as well as stereomerically enriched mixtures e.g. R S 30 70 35 65 40 60 45 55 55 45 60 40 65 35 and 70 30 .

Unless otherwise indicated the term stereomerically pure means a composition that comprises one stereoisomer of a compound and is substantially free of other stereoisomers of that compound. For example a stereomerically pure composition of a compound having one stereocenter will be substantially free of the opposite stereoisomer of the compound. A stereomerically pure composition of a compound having two stereocenters will be substantially free of other diastereomers of the compound. A typical stereomerically pure compound comprises greater than about 80 by weight of one stereoisomer of the compound and less than about 20 by weight of other stereoisomers of the compound greater than about 90 by weight of one stereoisomer of the compound and less than about 10 by weight of the other stereoisomers of the compound greater than about 95 by weight of one stereoisomer of the compound and less than about 5 by weight of the other stereoisomers of the compound greater than about 97 by weight of one stereoisomer of the compound and less than about 3 by weight of the other stereoisomers of the compound or greater than about 99 by weight of one stereoisomer of the compound and less than about 1 by weight of the other stereoisomers of the compound.

Unless otherwise indicated the term substituted when used to describe a chemical structure or moiety refers to a derivative of that structure or moiety wherein one or more of its hydrogen atoms is substituted with an atom chemical moiety or functional group such as but not limited to alcohol aldehylde alkoxy alkanoyloxy alkoxycarbonyl alkenyl alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl propyl t butyl alkynyl alkylcarbonyloxy OC O alkyl amide C O NH alkyl or alkylNHC O alkyl amidinyl C NH NH alkyl or C NR NH amine primary secondary and tertiary such as alkylamino arylamino arylalkylamino aroyl aryl aryloxy azo carbamoyl NHC O O alkyl or OC O NH alkyl carbamyl e.g. CONH as well as CONH alkyl CONH aryl and CONH arylalkyl carbonyl carboxyl carboxylic acid carboxylic acid anhydride carboxylic acid chloride cyano ester epoxide ether e.g. methoxy ethoxy guanidino halo haloalkyl e.g. CCl CF C CF heteroalkyl hemiacetal imine primary and secondary isocyanate isothiocyanate ketone nitrile nitro oxygen i.e. to provide an oxo group phosphodiester sulfide sulfonamido e.g. SONH sulfone sulfonyl including alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl and arylalkylsulfonyl sulfoxide thiol e.g. sulfhydryl thioether and urea NHCONH alkyl .

Unless otherwise indicated a therapeutically effective amount of a compound is an amount sufficient to provide a therapeutic benefit in the treatment or management of a disease or condition or to delay or minimize one or more symptoms associated with the disease or condition. A therapeutically effective amount of a compound is an amount of therapeutic agent alone or in combination with other therapies which provides a therapeutic benefit in the treatment or management of the disease or condition. The term therapeutically effective amount can encompass an amount that improves overall therapy reduces or avoids symptoms or causes of a disease or condition or enhances the therapeutic efficacy of another therapeutic agent.

Unless otherwise indicated the term TPH1 IC is the ICof a compound for TPH1 as determined using the in vitro inhibition assay described in the Examples below.

Unless otherwise indicated the term TPH2 IC is the IC50 of a compound for TPH2 as determined using the in vitro inhibition assay described in the Examples below.

Unless otherwise indicated the terms treat treating and treatment contemplate an action that occurs while a patient is suffering from the specified disease or disorder which reduces the severity of the disease or disorder or one or more of its symptoms or retards or slows the progression of the disease or disorder.

Unless otherwise indicated the term include has the same meaning as include and the term includes has the same meaning as includes but is not limited to. Similarly the term such as has the same meaning as the term such as but not limited to. 

Unless otherwise indicated one or more adjectives immediately preceding a series of nouns is to be construed as applying to each of the nouns. For example the phrase optionally substituted alky aryl or heteroaryl has the same meaning as optionally substituted alky optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl. 

It should be noted that a chemical moiety that forms part of a larger compound may be described herein using a name commonly accorded it when it exists as a single molecule or a name commonly accorded its radical. For example the terms pyridine and pyridyl are accorded the same meaning when used to describe a moiety attached to other chemical moieties. Thus the two phrases XOH wherein X is pyridyl and XOH wherein X is pyridine are accorded the same meaning and encompass the compounds pyridin 2 ol pyridin 3 ol and pyridin 4 ol.

It should also be noted that if the stereochemistry of a structure or a portion of a structure is not indicated with for example bold or dashed lines the structure or the portion of the structure is to be interpreted as encompassing all stereoisomers of it. Similarly names of compounds having one or more chiral centers that do not specify the stereochemistry of those centers encompass pure stereoisomers and mixtures thereof. Moreover any atom shown in a drawing with unsatisfied valences is assumed to be attached to enough hydrogen atoms to satisfy the valences. In addition chemical bonds depicted with one solid line parallel to one dashed line encompass both single and double e.g. aromatic bonds if valences permit.

Particular embodiments of this invention utilize compounds capable of inhibiting tryptophan hydroxylase TPH . Preferred compounds are potent TPH1 inhibitors. Examples of potent TPH1 inhibitors are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 638 677 filed Dec. 12 2006.

With regard to the formulae disclosed herein e.g. I I A II and II A particular compounds include those wherein A is optionally substituted cycloalkyl e.g. 6 membered and 5 membered . In some A is optionally substituted aryl e.g. phenyl or naphthyl . In others A is optionally substituted heterocycle e.g. 6 membered and 5 membered . Examples of 6 membered heterocycles include pyridine pyridazine pyrimidine pyrazine and triazine. Examples of 5 membered heterocycles include pyrrole imidazole triazole thiazole thiophene and furan. In some compounds A is aromatic. In others A is not aromatic. In some A is an optionally substituted bicyclic moiety e.g. indole iso indole pyrrolo pyridine or napthylene .

With regard to the formulae disclosed herein particular compounds include those wherein D is optionally substituted aryl e.g. phenyl or naphthyl . In others D is optionally substituted heterocycle e.g. 6 membered and 5 membered . Examples of 6 membered heterocycles include pyridine pyridazine pyrimidine pyrazine and triazine. Examples of 5 membered heterocycles include pyrrole imidazole triazole thiazole thiophene and furan. In some compounds D is aromatic. In others D is not aromatic. In some D is an optionally substituted bicyclic moiety e.g. indole iso indole pyrrolo pyridine or napthylene .

With regard to the various formulae disclosed herein particular compounds include those wherein E is optionally substituted aryl e.g. phenyl or naphthyl . In others E is optionally substituted heterocycle e.g. 6 membered and 5 membered . Examples of 6 membered heterocycles include pyridine pyridazine pyrimidine pyrazine and triazine. Examples of 5 membered heterocycles include pyrrole imidazole triazole thiazole thiophene and furan. In some compounds E is aromatic. In others E is not aromatic. In some E is an optionally substituted bicyclic moiety e.g. indole iso indole pyrrolo pyridine or napthylene .

With regard to the various formulae disclosed herein particular compounds include those wherein Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl.

In some X is a bond or S. In others X is C R C R C RR C R C R or C C and for example Ris independently hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl. In others X is O C RR O or OC RR and for example Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl and Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl. In some Ris hydrogen and Ris trifluromethyl. In some compounds X is S O S O N R N R S O C RR S O or S O C RR and for example Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl and Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl. In others X is N R N R C O N R C RR N R or N R C RR and for example R3 is hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl Ris hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl and each Ris independently hydrogen or optionally substituted alkyl.

Referring to the various formulae above some compounds are such that all of Z Z Z and Zare N. In others only three of Z Z Z and Zare N. In others only two of Z Z Z and Zare N. In others only one of Z Z Z and Zis N. In others none of Z Z Z and Zare N.

Referring to the various formulae above some compounds are such that all of Z Z and Z are N or NH. In others only two of Z Z and Z are N or NH. In others only one of Z Z and Z is N or NH. In others none of Z Z and Z are N or NH.

Referring to the various formulae above some compounds are such that all of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only three of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only two of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only one of Z Z Z and Z is N. In others none of Z Z Z and Z are N.

Referring to the various formulae above some compounds are such that all of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only three of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only two of Z Z Z and Z are N. In others only one of Z Z Z and Z is N. In others none of Z Z Z and Z are N.

Referring to the various formulae disclosed herein particular compounds include those wherein both A and E are optionally substituted phenyl and for example X is O C RR O or OC RR and for example Ris hydrogen and R4 is trifluoromethyl and for example n is 1.

This invention encompasses stereomerically pure compounds and stereomerically enriched compositions of them. Stereoisomers may be asymmetrically synthesized or resolved using standard techniques such as chiral columns chiral resolving agents or enzymatic resolution. See e.g. Jacques J. et al. Wiley Interscience New York 1981 Wilen S. H. et al. 33 2725 1977 Eliel E. L. McGraw Hill N.Y. 1962 and Wilen S. H. p. 268 E. L. Eliel Ed. Univ. of Notre Dame Press Notre Dame Ind. 1972 .

Particular compounds of the invention are potent TPH1 inhibitors. Specific compounds have a TPH1 ICof less than about 10 5 2.5 1 0.75 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 or 0.05 M.

Particular compounds are selective TPH1 inhibitors. Specific compounds have a TPH1 ICthat is about 10 25 50 100 250 500 or 1000 times less than their TPH2 IC.

Particular compounds do not significantly inhibit human tyrosine hydroxylase TH . For example specific compounds have an ICfor TH of greater than about 100 250 500 or 1000 m.

Particular compounds do not significantly inhibit human phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH . For example specific compounds have an ICfor PAH of greater than about 100 250 500 or 1000 M.

Particular compounds of the invention do not significantly bind e.g. inhibit with an ICof greater than about 10 25 50 100 250 500 750 or 1000 M to one or more of the following angiotensin converting enzyme erythropoietin EPO receptor factor IX factor XI integrin e.g. 4 isoxazoline or isoxazole fibrinogen receptor metalloprotease neutral endopeptidase NEP phosphatase e.g. tyrosine phosphatase phosphodiesterase e.g. PDE 4 polymerase PPAR TNF vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 VCAM 1 or the vitronectin receptor. The ability of a compound to bind to e.g. inhibit any of these targets can be readily determined using methods known in the art as described in references cited above. Specific compounds of the invention do not inhibit cell adhesion.

When administered to mammals e.g. mice rats dogs monkeys or humans certain compounds of the invention do not readily cross the blood brain barrier e.g. less than about 5 2.5 2 1.5 1 0.5 or 0.01 percent of compound in the blood passes into the brain . The ability or inability of a compound to cross the blood brain barrier can be determined by methods known in the art. See e.g. Riant P. et al. 51 421 425 1988 Kastin A. J. Akerstrom V. 294 633 636 2000 W. A. Banks W. A. et al. 302 1062 1069 2002 .

Compounds of the invention can be prepared by methods known in the art and by methods described herein.

For example with reference to formula I compounds in which E is phenyl and D is optionally substituted pyrazine pyridiazine pyridine or phenyl can generally be prepared by the method shown in Scheme 1 

Compounds wherein X is OCR can generally be prepared using the method shown in Scheme 2 wherein Ris CFand D is pyrimidine 

The individual reactions shown above can be performed using conditions known in the art. For example palladium catalysts and conditions suitable for the Suzuki coupling of the boron and halogen containing moieties are well known and examples are provided below. In addition types and appropriate uses of protecting groups are well known as are methods of their removal and replacement with moieties such as but not limited to hydrogen e.g. hydrolysis under acidic or basic conditions .

The A moiety can be bicyclic e.g. optionally substituted biphenyl . In such cases the starting material containing A can be prepared as shown below 

Another approach to the preparation of compounds wherein D is optionally substituted pyrimidine or triazine is shown below in Scheme 4 

Ester derivatives of these and other compounds of the invention can be readily prepared using methods such as that shown below in Scheme 5 wherein E is optionally substituted phenyl 

The cyclic moiety D can be any of a variety of structures which are readily incorporated into compounds of the invention. For example compounds wherein D is oxazole can be prepared as shown below in Scheme 7 

Using methods known in the art the synthetic approaches shown above are readily modified to obtain a wide range of compounds. For example chiral chromatography and other techniques known in the art may be used to separate stereoisomers of the final product. See e.g. Jacques J. et al. Wiley Interscience New York 1981 Wilen S. H. et al. 33 2725 1977 Eliel E. L. McGraw Hill N.Y. 1962 and Wilen S. H. p. 268 E. L. Eliel Ed. Univ. of Notre Dame Press Notre Dame Ind. 1972 . In addition as shown in some of the schemes above syntheses may utilize chiral starting materials to yield stereomerically enriched or pure products.

This invention is directed in part to methods of treating pulmonary hypertension and related diseases and disorders. Pulmonary hypertension includes idiopathic and familial PH. It also includes PH associated with other diseases or conditions e.g. collagen vascular disease congenital systemic to pulmonary shunts a drug or toxin Gaucher disease a glycogen storage disease hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia hemoglobinopathies HIV infection a myeloproliferative disorder portal hypertension splenectomy a thyroid disorder . It also includes PAH and PAH associated with significant venous or capillary involvement. It also includes PH associated with pulmonary veno occlusive disease or pulmonary capillary hemangiomatosis. It also includes persistent PH of the newborn.

Particular methods comprise administering to a patient therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of a tryptophan hydroxylase TPH inhibitor and at least one second active pharmaceutical ingredient. Second active pharmaceutical ingredients include those that can affect vasodilation or vasoconstriction.

One embodiment of the invention encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of an endothelin receptor antagonist and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor. Examples of endothelin receptor antagonists include those which antagonize the ETreceptor the ETreceptor or both the ETand ETreceptors. Particular endothelin receptor antagonists include ambrisentan BMS 193884 bosentan darusentan SB 234551 sitaxsentan and tezosentan.

Another embodiment encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of an anticoagulant and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor. Examples of anticoagulants include vitamin K antagonists e.g. warfarin acenocoumarol phenprocoumon phenindione herparin and derivatives thereof e.g. fondaparinux and direct thrombin inhibitors e.g. argatroban bivalirudin lepirudin ximelagatran .

Another embodiment encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of a calcium channel blocker and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor. Examples of calcium channel blockers include dihydropyridines e.g. amlodipine felodipine nicardipine nifedipine nimodipine nisoldipine nitrenidipine lacidipine lercanidipine phenylalkylamines e.g. verapamil gallopamil benzothiazepines e.g. diltiazem and menthol.

Another embodiment encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of a prostacyclin and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor. Examples of prostacyclind include epoprostenol iloprost and treprostinil.

Another embodiment encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of nitric oxide or a nitric oxide precursor or releasing compound and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor.

Another encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of a phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor. Examples of phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors include sildenafil tadalafil and vardenafil.

Another embodiment encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of a diuretic and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor. Examples of diuretics include high ceiling loop diuretics e.g. furosemide ethacrynic acid torasemide bumetanide thiazides e.g. hydrochlorothiazide potassium sparing diuretics e.g. spironolactone and osmotic diuretics e.g. mannitol .

Another embodiment encompasses a method of treating managing or preventing pulmonary hypertension which comprises administering to a patient in need thereof therapeutically or prophylactically effective amounts of a platelet derived growth factor and a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor. An example of a platelet derived growth factor is imatinib.

The dose and method of administration of a TPH inhibitor can be readily determined by those of ordinary skill in the art. For example an inhibitor can be titrated until the severity of a serotonin mediated adverse effect diminishes. Alternatively blood 5 HT levels can be directly measured and correlated to the amount of TPH inhibitor administered.

This invention encompasses pharmaceutical compositions comprising a TPH inhibitor e.g. a potent TPH1 inhibitor and at least one other active pharmaceutical ingredient that can affect vasodilation or vasoconstriction. Examples of such other active pharmaceutical ingredients include those described herein as well as other known by those skilled in the art.

Certain pharmaceutical compositions are single unit dosage forms suitable for oral mucosal e.g. nasal sublingual vaginal buccal or rectal parenteral e.g. subcutaneous intravenous bolus injection intramuscular or intraarterial or transdermal administration to a patient. Examples of dosage forms include but are not limited to tablets caplets capsules such as soft elastic gelatin capsules cachets troches lozenges dispersions suppositories ointments cataplasms poultices pastes powders dressings creams plasters solutions patches aerosols e.g. nasal sprays or inhalers gels liquid dosage forms suitable for oral or mucosal administration to a patient including suspensions e.g. aqueous or non aqueous liquid suspensions oil in water emulsions or a water in oil liquid emulsions solutions and elixirs liquid dosage forms suitable for parenteral administration to a patient and sterile solids e.g. crystalline or amorphous solids that can be reconstituted to provide liquid dosage forms suitable for parenteral administration to a patient.

The formulation should suit the mode of administration. For example the oral administration of a compound susceptible to degradation in the stomach may be achieved using an enteric coating. Similarly a formulation may contain ingredients that facilitate delivery of the active ingredient s to the site of action. For example compounds may be administered in liposomal formulations in order to protect them from degradative enzymes facilitate transport in circulatory system and effect their delivery across cell membranes.

Similarly poorly soluble compounds may be incorporated into liquid dosage forms and dosage forms suitable for reconstitution with the aid of solubilizing agents emulsifiers and surfactants such as but not limited to cyclodextrins e.g. cyclodextrin cyclodextrin Captisol and Encapsin see e.g. Davis and Brewster 3 1023 1034 2004 Labrasol Labrafil Labrafac cremafor and non aqueous solvents such as but not limited to ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol dimethyl formamide dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO biocompatible oils e.g. cottonseed groundnut corn germ olive castor and sesame oils glycerol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol polyethylene glycols fatty acid esters of sorbitan and mixtures thereof e.g. DMSO cornoil .

Poorly soluble compounds may also be incorporated into suspensions using other techniques known in the art. For example nanoparticles of a compound may be suspended in a liquid to provide a nanosuspension see e.g. Rabinow 3 785 796 2004 . Nanoparticle forms of compounds described herein may be prepared by the methods described in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2004 0164194 2004 0195413 2004 0251332 2005 0042177 Al 2005 0031691 Al and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 145 684 5 510 118 5 518 187 5 534 270 5 543 133 5 662 883 5 665 331 5 718 388 5 718 919 5 834 025 5 862 999 6 431 478 6 742 734 6 745 962 the entireties of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. In one embodiment the nanoparticle form comprises particles having an average particle size of less than about 2000 nm less than about 1000 nm or less than about 500 nm.

The composition shape and type of a dosage form will typically vary depending with use. For example a dosage form used in the acute treatment of a disease may contain larger amounts of one or more of the active ingredients it comprises than a dosage form used in the chronic treatment of the same disease. Similarly a parenteral dosage form may contain smaller amounts of one or more of the active ingredients it comprises than an oral dosage form used to treat the same disease. How to account for such differences will be apparent to those skilled in the art. See e.g. 18th ed. Mack Publishing Easton Pa. 1990 .

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention suitable for oral administration can be presented as discrete dosage forms such as but are not limited to tablets e.g. chewable tablets caplets capsules and liquids e.g. flavored syrups . Such dosage forms contain predetermined amounts of active ingredients and may be prepared by methods of pharmacy well known to those skilled in the art. See generally 18th ed. Mack Publishing Easton Pa. 1990 .

Typical oral dosage forms are prepared by combining the active ingredient s in an intimate admixture with at least one excipient according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques. Excipients can take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration.

Because of their ease of administration tablets and capsules represent the most advantageous oral dosage unit forms. If desired tablets can be coated by standard aqueous or non aqueous techniques. Such dosage forms can be prepared by conventional methods of pharmacy. In general pharmaceutical compositions and dosage forms are prepared by uniformly and intimately admixing the active ingredients with liquid carriers finely divided solid carriers or both and then shaping the product into the desired presentation if necessary. Disintegrants may be incorporated in solid dosage forms to facility rapid dissolution. Lubricants may also be incorporated to facilitate the manufacture of dosage forms e.g. tablets .

Parenteral dosage forms can be administered to patients by various routes including subcutaneous intravenous including bolus injection intramuscular and intraarterial. Because their administration typically bypasses patients natural defenses against contaminants parenteral dosage forms are specifically sterile or capable of being sterilized prior to administration to a patient. Examples of parenteral dosage forms include solutions ready for injection dry products ready to be dissolved or suspended in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle for injection suspensions ready for injection and emulsions.

Suitable vehicles that can be used to provide parenteral dosage forms of the invention are well known to those skilled in the art. Examples include Water for Injection USP aqueous vehicles such as Sodium Chloride Injection Ringer s Injection Dextrose Injection Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection and Lactated Ringer s Injection water miscible vehicles such as ethyl alcohol polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol and non aqueous vehicles such as corn oil cottonseed oil peanut oil sesame oil ethyl oleate isopropyl myristate and benzyl benzoate.

Exon 3 of the murine TPH1 gene was removed by gene targeting essentially as described by Wattler et al. 26 6 1150 6 1999 . The resulting knockout animals displayed normal TPH activity in the brain but drastically reduced TPH expression in the gut.

Mice homozygous for the disruption of tph1 were studied in conjunction with mice heterozygous for the disruption of the gene along with wild type litter mates. During this analysis the mice were subject to a medical work up using an integrated suite of medical diagnostic procedures designed to assess the function of the major organ systems in a mammalian subject. By studying the homozygous knockout mice in the described numbers and in conjunction with heterozygous and wild type litter mates more reliable and repeatable data was obtained.

Disruption of tph1 gene primarily affected the GI tract isoform of TPH TPH1 and had little or no effect on the brain isoform of TPH TPH2 . Disruption of the gene caused no measurable adverse effects on the central nervous system. This was confirmed by serotonin immunochemistry which showed that serotonin was greatly reduced or absent in the stomach duodenum jejunum ileum cecum and colon while serotonin levels were unaffected in raphe neurons.

Mice homozygous for the disruption of the tph1 gene had a decrease in thrombosis without a significant increase in bleeding or other adverse indications.

In some of the following synthetic examples high performance liquid chromatography HPLC retention times are provided. Unless otherwise noted the various conditions used to obtain those retention times are described below 

Method A YMC PACK ODS A 3.0 50 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 4 min. flow rate 2 ml min observation wavelength 220 nm.

Method B YMC PACK ODS A 3.0 50 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water 0.1 TFA B from 10 to 100 over 4 min. flow rate 3 ml min observation wavelength 220 nm.

Method C YMC PACK ODS A 3.0 50 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 5 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 nm.

Method D Shim VP ODS 4.6 50 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 4 min. flow rate 3 ml min. observation wavelength 220 nm.

Method E Shim VP ODS 4.6 50 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 4 min. flow rate 3 ml min observation wavelength 254 nm.

Method F YMC PACK ODS A 4.6 33 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 4 min. flow rate 3 ml min. observation wavelength 220 nm.

Method G YMC PACK ODS A 4.6 50 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 2 min. flow rate 2.5 ml min. observation wavelength 220 nm.

Method H C18 4.6 20 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 2 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 nm.

Method I YMC PACK ODS A 3.0 50 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water 0.1 TFA B from 10 to 100 over 4 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 nm.

Method J YMC Pack ODS A 3.0 50 mm Solvent A HO 0.1 TFA Solvent B MeOH 0.1 TFA B from about 10 to about 90 over 4 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 nm.

Method K Sunfire C18 50 mm 4.6 mm 3.5 m Solvent A 10 mM NHOAc in water Solvent B MeCN B from 10 to 95 over 2 min. flow rate 4.5 ml min. observation wavelength 220 nm.

Method L Sunfire C18 50 mm 4.6 mm 3.5 m Solvent A 10 mM NHOAc Solvent B MeCN B from 2 to 20 over 0.8 min then to 95 B over 2 min flow rate 4.5 ml min. observation wavelength 220 nm.

Method M YMC PACK ODS A 4.6 33 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 5 min. flow rate 2.5 ml min. observation wavelength 254 nm.

Method N YMC PACK ODS A 3.0 50 mm Solvent A HO 0.1 TFA Solvent B MeOH 0.1 TFA B from 10 to 90 over 4 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 and 254 nm.

Method O YMC PACK ODS A 3.0 50 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH with 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water with 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 4 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 and 254 nm.

Method P ShimPack VP ODS 4.6 50 mm Solvent A 90 HO 10 MeOH 1 TFA Solvent B 10 HO 90 MeOH 1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 2 min. flow rate 3.5 ml min. observation wavelength 220 and 254 nm.

Method Q Shim VP ODS 4.6 50 mm Solvent A HO with 0.1 TFA Solvent B MeOH with 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 4 min. flow rate 3 ml min. observation wavelength 254 nm.

Method R YMC Pack ODS A 4.6 33 mm Solvent A HO 0.1 TFA Solvent B MeOH with 0.1 TFA B from 10 to 90 over 3 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 and 254 nm.

Method S YMC Pack ODS A 3.0 50 mm Solvent A 90 HO 10 MeOH 1 TFA Solvent B 10 HO 90 MeOH 1 TFA B from 10 to 90 over 4 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 and 254 nm.

6.4. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 4 amino 6 R 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

A mixture of 2 amino 4 6 dichloro 1 3 5 triazine 200 mg 1.21 mmol R 1 2 naphthyl ethylamine 207 mg 1.21 mmol and diisopropyl ethylamine 3.63 mmol was dissolved in 150 ml of 1 4 dioxane. The solution was refluxed at 90 C. for 3 hours. After the completion of reaction monitored by LCMS solvent was removed and the reaction mixture was extracted with CHCl 100 ml and HO 100 ml . The organic layer was separated and washed with HO 2 100 ml dried over NaSO and concentrated in vacuo to give crude intermediate. The crude compound was dissolved in 5 ml of MeCN and 5 ml of HO in a 20 ml microwave reaction vial. To this solution were added L p borono phenylalanine 253 mg 1.21 mmol sodium carbonate 256 mg 2.42 mmol and catalytic amount of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 42.1 mg 0.06 mmol . The mixture was sealed and stirred in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 5 minutes followed by the filtration through celite. The filtrate was concentrated and dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA solvent system. The combined pure fractions were evaporated in vacuo and further dried on a lyophilizer to give 238 mg of 2 amino 3 4 4 amino 6 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propionic acid yield 46 LC Column YMC Pack ODS A 3.0 50 mm B 0 100 Gradient time 4min Flow Rate 2 ml min wavelength 220 Solvent A 90 10 water MeOH w 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 10 MeOH water w 0.1 TFA RT 2.785 min MS M 1 429 . NMR H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.65 d 3H 3.22 3.42 m 2H 4.3 m 1H 5.45 m 1H 7.4 m 1H 7.6 m 4H 7.8 m 4H 8.2 m 2H .

6.5. Alternative Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 4 amino 6 R 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

 R 1 1 Napthalen 2 yl ethyl cyanoguanidine was prepared by forming a mixture of naphthalene amine 1 equivalent sodium dicyanide 0.95 eq. and followed by 5N HCl 1 eq. in n BuOH HO 1 1 . The mixture was refluxed for 1 day in a sealed tube at 160 C. and progress of reaction was monitored by LCMS. After completion of reaction solvent n BuOH was removed under reduced pressure and 1N HCl was added to adjust pH to 3 5 range. The aqueous solution was extracted with EtOAc 2 100 and combined organic phase was dried over NaSO. Solvent was removed in vacuo to give crude product. The compound was purified by ISCO column chromatography using as the solvent system EtOAc hexane 7 3 and 1 1 to obtain white solid 48 71 yield for 1 g to 22.5 gram scale. NMR H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.5 d 3H 5.1 m 1H 7.5 m 4H 7.8 s 1H 7.9 m 2H LCMS RT 1.69 M 1 239 Yield 71 .

The title compound was prepared from R 1 1 napthalen 2 yl ethyl cyanoguanidine according to the method shown in Scheme 6.

6.6. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 4 amino 6 4 methylbiphenyl 4 yl methylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

A mixture of 2 amino 4 6 dichloro 1 3 5 triazine 100 mg 0.606 mmol 4 methyl biphenyl 4 yl methylamine 142 mg 0.606 mmol and cesium carbonate 394 mg 1.21 mmol was dissolved in 1 4 dioxane 1.5 ml and HO 1.5 ml in a 5 ml microwave vial. The mixture was stirred in microwave reactor at 100 C. for 15 minutes. Solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in CHCl 20 ml and washed with HO 2 20 ml dried over NaSOand then removed in vacuo. The crude intermediate was then dissolved in 1.5 ml of MeCN and 1.5 ml of HO in a 5 ml microwave vial. To this solution were added L p borono phenylalanine 126 mg 0.606 mmol sodium carbonate 128 mg 1.21 mmol and catalytic amount of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 21.1 mg 0.03 mmol . The mixture was sealed and stirred in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 5 minutes followed by the filtration through celite. The filtrate was concentrated and dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA solvent system. The combined pure fractions were evaporated in vacuo and further dried on a lyophilizer to give 21.6 mg of 2 amino 3 4 4 amino 6 4 methyl biphenyl 4 ylmethyl amino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propionic acid LC Column YMC Pack ODS A 3.0 50 mm B 0 100 Gradient time 4 min Flow Rate 2 ml min wavelength 220 Solvent A 90 10 water MeOH w 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 10 MeOH water w 0.1 TFA RT 3.096 min MS M 1 455 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.33 s 3H 3.24 3.44 m 2H 4.38 m 1H 7.02 d 2H 7.42 m 2H 7.50 7.60 m 6H 8.22 m 2H .

6.7. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 4 morpholino 6 naphthalen 2 ylmethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

A mixture of 2 4 dichloro 6 morpholin 4 yl 1 3 5 triazine 121 mg 0.516 mmol C naphthalen 2 yl methylamine hydrochloride 100 mg 0.516 mmol cesium carbonate 336 mg 1.03 mmol was dissolved in 1 4 Dioxane 1.5 ml and HO 1.5 ml in a 5 ml microwave vial. The mixture was stirred in microwave reactor at 180 C. for 600 seconds. Solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in CHCl 10 ml and washed with HO 2 10ml dried over NaSO4 and then in vacuo. The residue was purified by preparative HPLC to give 20 mg intermediate yield 11 M 1 356 . The intermediate was then dissolved in 0.5 ml of MeCN and 0.5 ml of HO in a 2 ml microwave vial. To this solution were added L p borono phenylalanine 11.7 mg 0.0562 mmol sodium carbonate 11.9 mg 0.112 mmol and a catalytic amount of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 2.0 mg 5 . The mixture was sealed and stirred in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 5 minutes followed by the filtration through celite. The filtrate was concentrated and dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA solvent system. The combined pure fractions were evaporated in vacuo and further dried on lyophilizer to give 17 mg of 2 amino 3 4 4 morpholin 4 yl 6 naphthalene 2 ylmethyl amino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propionic acid yield 63 LC Method B RT 3.108 min MS M 1 486 .

6.8. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.1 ml 1.0 M solution in tetrahydrofuran was added to a solution of 2 trifluoromethyl benzaldehyde 1.74 g 10 mmol and trifluoromethyltrimethylsilane TMSCF 1.8 ml 12 mmol in 10 ml THF at 0 C. The formed mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 12 ml of 1N HCl and stirred overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 2.2 g of 1 2 trifluoromethylphenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol yield 90 .

NaH 80 mg 60 3.0 mmol was added to a solution of 1 2 trifluoromethylphenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 244 mg 1 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous THF. The mixture was stirred for 20 minutes 2 amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 164 mg 1 mmol was added and then the reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. for 1 hour. After cooling 5 ml water was added and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 267 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 trifluoromethylphenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine yield 71 .

In a microwave vial 4 chloro 2 amino 6 1 2 trifluoromethylphenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidine 33 mg 0.1 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 31 mg 0.15 mmol and 1 ml of acetonitrile 0.7 ml of water. 0.3 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was added to above solution followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then was purified by Prep LC to give 5.6 mg of 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 triifluoromethylphenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 7.96 m 3H 7.80 d J 8.06 Hz 1H 7.74 t J 7.91 Hz 1H 7.63 t J 8.06 Hz 1H 7.41 d J 8.3 Hz 2 H 7.21 m 1H 6.69 s 1H 3.87 m 1H 3.34 m 1H 3.08 m 1H .

6.9. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 p tolylethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.1 ml 1.0 M solution in tetrahydrofuran was added to a solution of 4 methyl benzaldehyde 1.2 g 10 mmol and TMSCF 1.8 ml 12 mmol in 10 ml THF at 0 C. The formed mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 12 ml of 1N HCl and stirred overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 1.6 g of 1 4 methylphenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol yield 86 .

NaH 80 mg 60 3.0 mmol was added to a solution of 1 4 methylphenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 190 mg 1 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous THF. The mixture was stirred for 20 minutes 2 amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 164 mg 1 mmol was added and then the reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. for 1 hour. After cooling 5 ml water was added and ethyl acetate 20ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 209 mg of 4 chloro 6 1 4 methylphenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine yield 66 .

A microwave vial was charged with 4 chloro 2 amino 6 1 4 methylphenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidine 33 mg 0.1 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 31 mg 0.15 mmol and 1 ml of acetonitrile 0.7 ml of water. Aqueous sodium carbonate 0.3 ml 1N was added to above solution followed by 5 mol percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol was then purified by Prep LC to give 14.6 mg of 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 methylphenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 7.94 d J 8.20 Hz 2H 7.47 d J 7.24 Hz 4 H 7.27 d J 8.01 Hz 2H 6.80 s 1H 6.75 m 1H 4.30 t 1 H 3.21 3.44 m 2 H 2.37 s 3H .

6.10. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 1 cyclohexyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

Cyclohexanecarbaldehyde 0.9 g 5 mmol was dissolved in 10 ml aqueous 1 4 dioxane to which 200 mg 10 mmol sodium borohydride was added. The reaction was run overnight at room temperature. After completion of the reaction 5 ml 10 HCl solution was added and the product was extracted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 0.8 g of 1 cyclohexyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol yield 88 . NaH 80 mg 60 3.0 mmol was added to the solution of 1 cyclohexyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 182 mg 1 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous THF the mixture was stirred for 20 minutes 2 amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 164 mg 1 mmol was added and then the reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. for 1 hour. After cooling 5 ml water was added and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 202 mg of 4 chloro 6 1 cyclohexyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine yield 65 .

In a microwave vial 4 chloro 2 amino 6 1 cyclohexane 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidine 33 mg 0.1 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 31 mg 0.15 mmol and 1 ml of acetonitrile 0.7 ml of water 0.3 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M was added to above solution followed by 5 mol percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with a microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and the product was purified by Prep LC to give 4.9 mg 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 1 cyclohexyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.95 d J 8.39 Hz 2 H 7.49 d J 8.39 Hz 2 H 6.72 s 1H 5.90 m 1 H 4.33 t 1 H 3.21 3.44 m 2 H 1.73 2.00 m 6H 1.23 1.39 m 5H .

NaH 80 mg 60 3.0 mmol was added to a solution of 2 fluorophenol 112 mg 1 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous THF the mixture was stirred for 20 minutes 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 149 mg 1 mmol was added and then the reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. for 1 hour. After cooling 5 ml water was added and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 146 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 fluorophenoxy pyrimidine yield 65 .

A microwave vial 2 ml was charged with 4 chloro 6 2 fluorophenoxy pyrimidine 33 mg 0.1 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 31 mg 0.15 mmol and 1 ml of actonitrile 0.7 ml of water 0.3 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M was added to above solution followed by 5 mol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes by microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and the product was purified with Prep LC to give 4.9 mg 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 1 2 fluorophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.74 s 1H 8.17 d J 8.06 Hz 2H 7.63 s 1H 7.50 d J 8.06 Hz 2H 7.30 m 5H 4.33 m 1 H 3.34 m 1 H .

6.12. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 4 3 4 chlorophenyl piperidin 1 yl 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

3 4 Chlorophenyl piperidine 232 mg 1 mmol was added to a solution of 2 4 dichlorotriazine 149.97 mg 1 mmol and 300 mg diisopropylethyl amine in 10 ml THF at 0 C. The formed mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 1 hour. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 328 mg of 2 chloro 4 3 4 chlorophenyl piperidin 1 yl 1 3 5 triazine.

A microwave vial was charged with 2 chloro 4 3 4 chlorophenyl piperidin 1 yl 1 3 5 triazine 62 mg 0.2 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 60 mg 0.3 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. Aqueous sodium carbonate 0.6 ml 1M was added to the solution followed by 5 mol percent dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol was then purified by Prep LC to give 5.1 mg of 2 amino 3 4 4 3 4 chlorophenyl piperidin 1 yl 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.58 d 2H 8.05 d 2H 7.47 m 5 H 4.96 m 1H 4.23 m 2H 3.21 3.44 m 4 H 2.37 m 5H .

6.13. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 4 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 phenylethoxy 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

NaH 80 mg 60 3.0 mmol was added to a solution of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 phenyl ethanol 176 mg 1 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous 1 4 dioxane. The mixture was stirred for 20 minutes then added to a solution of 2 amino 4 6 dichloro triazine 164 mg 1 mmol in 30 ml of 1 4 dioxane at 0 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was then warmed to room temperature. After completion of the reaction 5 ml of water was added and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 198 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 phenyl ethoxy 1 3 5 triazine 2 ylamine yield 65 .

A microwave vial was charged with 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 phenyl ethoxy 1 3 5 triazine 2 ylamine 33 mg 0.1 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 31 mg 0.15 mmol 1 ml of actonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. Aqueous sodium carbonate 0.3 ml 1M was added to above solution followed by 5 mol percent dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes by microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol was then purified with Prep LC to give 3.2 mg 2 amino 3 4 4 amino 6 1 phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy 1 3 5 triazin 2yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 8.22 d J 8.20 Hz 2H 7.52 m 2 H 7.33 m 5H 6.62 m 1H 4.19 t 1 H 3.1 3.33 m 2 H .

6.14. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 5 4 amino 6 R 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl pyridin 2 yl propanoic acid

A microwave vial was charged with 6 chloro N 1 naphthalen 2yl ethyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diamine 30 mg 0.1 mmol 2 boc protected amino 3 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridin2 yl propionic acid 50 mg 0.15 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. Aqueous sodium carbonate 0.3 ml 1N was added to the solution followed by 5 mol percent dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes by microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and was then purified by Prep LC to give 7 mg of boc protected 2 amino 3 5 4 amino 6 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl pyridin 2 ylproionic acid.

The above product 7.0 mg was dissolved in 0.1 ml of 10 TFA DCM solution for 2 hours to provide 1.1 mg of 2 amino 3 3 4 amino 6 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl pyridin 2 ylproionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.35 d 1 H 8.57 m 1 H 7.85 m 4H 7.45 m 4 H 6.94 s 1H 5.58 m 1H 4.72 m 2H 4.44 m 1 H 1.42 d 3H .

6.15. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 3 4 amino 6 R 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl 1H pyrazol 1 yl propanoic acid

6 Chloro N 1 naphthalen 2yl ethyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diamine 30 mg 0.1 mmol 2 boc protected amino 3 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrazol 1 yl propionic acid 50 mg 0.15 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. Aqueous sodium carbonate 0.3 ml and 1N was added to a microwave vial followed by 5 mol percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then was purified with Prep LC to give 6.8 mg of boc protected 2 amino 3 3 4 amino 6 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl pyrazol 1 ylproionic acid.

The above product 6.8 mg was stirred in 0.1 ml 10 TFA DCM solution for 2 hours to provide 3 mg of 2 amino 3 3 4 amino 6 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl pyrazol 1 ylproionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 8.52 s 1 H 8.21 s 1 H 7.74 m 4 H 7.36 m 3H 5.35 m 1H 4.72 m 2H 4.44 m 1 H 1.55 d 3H .

Sodium triacetoxyl borohydride 470 mg 2.21 mmol was added to a solution of 4 bromo phenylamine 252 mg 1.47 mmol and 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzaldehyde 324 mg 1.47 mmol in 10 ml of 1 2 dicloroethtane DCE 0.5 ml of HOAc was added. The mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature followed by addition of 15 ml of DCE. The organic phase was washed with water and dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 656 mg of crude 4 bromo phenyl 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzyl amine. It was used for next step without further purification.

An Emrys process vial 2 5 ml for microwave was charged with 4 bromo phenyl 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzyl amine 84 mg 0.22 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 46 mg 0.22 mmol and 2 ml of acetonitrile. Aqueous sodium carbonate 2 ml 1M was added to above solution followed by 5 mol percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes by microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and purified with Prep LC to give 5 mg of 2 amino 3 4 3 cyclophentyloxy 4 methoxy benzylamino biphenyl 4yl propionic acid yield 5 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.46 m 2H 1.62 m 4H 3.01 m 2H 3.64 s 3H 4.14 s 3H 4.66 m 1H 6.61 d 2H 6.81 s 2H 6.88 s 1H 7.18 d 2H 7.31 d 2H 7.44 d 2H 7.60 m 1H 8.19 s 3H .

6.17. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 6 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxybenzylamino pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

Sodium tiracetoxyl borohydride 985 mg 4.65 mmol was added to a solution of 6 chloro pyrimidin 4 ylamine 200 mg 1.55 mmol and 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzaldehyde 682 mg 3.1 mmol in 25 ml of DCE. 1 ml of HOAc was added and the mixture was stirred overnight at 50 C. followed by addition of 25 ml of DCE. The organic phase was washed with water and the product was purified with column silica gel hexane EtOAc 5 1 to give 64 mg of 6 chloro pyrimidin 4 yl 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzyl amine yield 12 .

An Emrys process vial 2 5 ml for microwave was charged with 6 chloro pyrimidin 4 yl 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzyl amine 64 mg 0.19 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 40 mg 0.19 mmol and 2 ml of acetonitrile. Aqueous sodium carbonate 2 ml 1M was added to above solution followed by 5 mol percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and purified with Prep LC to give 5.3 mg of 2 amino 3 4 6 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzylamino pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid yield 6 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.46 m 2H 1.62 m 4H 3.01 m 2H 3.08 m 2H 3.65 s 3H 4.20 m 1H 4.46 d 2H 4.68 m 1H 6.82 t 2H 6.87 d 2H 7.40 d 2H 7.90 s 2H 8.25 s 2H 8.6 s 1H .

6.18. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 6 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxybenzylamino pyrazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

Sodium triacetoxyl borohydride 1315 mg 6.2 mmol was added to a solution of 6 chloro pyrazin 2 yl amine 400 mg 3.10 mmol and 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzaldehyde 818 mg 3.7mmol in 50 ml of DCE 1 ml of HOAc was added and the mixture was stirred overnight at 50 C. followed by addition of another 50 ml of DCE. The organic phase was washed with water and the product was purified with column silica gel hexane EtOAc 6 1 to give 50 mg of 6 chloro pyrazin 2 yl 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzyl amine yield 10 .

An Emrys process vial 2 5 ml for microwave was charged with 6 chloro pyrazin 2 yl 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzyl amine 50 mg 0.15 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 31 mg 0.15 mmol and 2 ml of acetonitrile. Aqueous sodium carbonate 2 ml 1M was added to the solution followed by 5 mol percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes by microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and the product was purified with Prep LC to give 5.5 mg of 2 amino 3 4 6 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzylamino pyrazin 2 yl phenyl propionic acid yield 6 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 1.46 m 2H 1.62 m 4H 3.01 m 2H 3.08 m 2H 3.65 s 3H 4.0 m 1H 4.45 d 2H 4.65 m 1H 6.90 s 2H 6.95 s 1H 7.32 d 2H 7.60 t 1H 7.90 s 1H 7.95 d 2H 8.25 s 1H .

6.19. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 5 4 methylbiphenyl 2 yl methylamino pyrazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

Sodium tiracetoxyl borohydride 215 mg 1.02 mmol was added to the solution of 4 methyl biphenyl 2 carbaldehyde and 5 bromo pyrazin 2 ylamine in 5 ml of DCE 0.1 ml of HOAc was added and the mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature followed by addition of 5 ml of DCE. The organic phase was washed with water and purified with column silica gel hexane EtOAc 6 1 to give 100 mg of 5 bromo pyrazin 2 yl 4 methyl biphenyl 2 ylmethyl amine yield 55 .

An Emrys process vial 2 5 ml for microwave was charged with 5 bromo pyrazin 2 yl 4 methyl biphenyl 2 ylmethyl amine 25 mg 0.071 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 22 mg 0.11 mmol and 1 ml of acetonitrile. Aqueous sodium carbonate 1 ml 1M was added to the solution followed by 5 mol percent dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes by microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and the product was purified with Prep LC to give 19 mg of 2 amino 3 4 6 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzylamino pyrazin 2 yl phenyl propionic acid yield 63 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.22 s 3H 3.09 m 1H 3.25 m 1H 4.18 t 1H 4.40 s 2H 7.07 d 2H 7.14 m 3H 7.24 m 4H 7.36 m 1H 7.72 d 2H 7.84 s 1H 8.20 d 1H .

6.20. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 phenylethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

NaH 60 120 mg 3.0 mmol was added to a solution of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 phenyl ethanol 350 mg 2.03 mmol in 5 ml of THF. The mixture was stirred for 20 minutes at room temperature. 4 6 Dichloro pyrimidine 300 mg 2.03 mmol was added and then the reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. for 1 hour. After cooling the THF was evaporated to provide a residue which was dissolved in 15 ml of EtOAc and then washed with water and dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 550 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 phenyl ethoxy pyrimidine yield 95 .

An Emrys process vial 2 5 ml for microwave was charged with 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 phenyl ethoxy pyrimidine 30 mg 0.11 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 32 mg 0.16 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.6 ml of water. Aqueous sodium carbonate 0.42 ml 1M was added to above solution followed by 10 mol percent of POPd dihydrogen di chlorodichlorobis di tert butylphosphinito P dipalladate. The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 120 C. for 30 minutes by microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and the product was purified with Prep LC to give 4.8 mg of 2 amino 3 4 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid yield 11 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 3.20 m 1H 3.40 m 1H 4.25 t 1H 6.82 dd 1H 7.43 m 5H 7.57 s 1H 7.60 m 2H 8.10 d 2H 8.75 s 1H .

6.21. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 6 1 3A difluorophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride TBAF 0.1 ml 1M in THF was added to a solution of 3 4 difluro benzaldehyde 1.42 g 10 mmol and trifluromethyl trimethylsilane 1.70 g 12 mmol in 10 ml THF at 0 C. The mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was treated with 12 ml of 1M HCl and stirred overnight. The product was extracted with dicloromethane 3 20 ml the organic layer was combined and passed through a pad of silica gel. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 1.9 g of 1 3 4 difluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol yield 90 .

NaH 80 mg 60 3.0 mmol was added to a solution of 1 3 4 Difluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 212 mg 1 mmol in 5 ml of THF the mixture was stirred for 20 minutes at room temperature. 4 6 Dichloro pyrimidine 149 mg 1 mmol was added and then the reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. for 1 hour. After cooling THF was evaporated. The residue was dissolved in 15 ml of EtOAc and then washed with water dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 230 mg of 4 chloro 6 1 3 4 difluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidine yield 70 .

An Emrys process vial 2 5 ml for microwave was charged with 4 chloro 6 1 3 4 difluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidine 33 mg 0.1 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 31 mg 0.15 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. Aqueous sodium carbonate 0.3 ml 1M was added to above solution followed by 5 mol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes by microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol then purified with Prep LC to give 10 mg of 2 amino 3 4 6 1 3 4 difluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyridin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid yield 21 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 3.11 m 1H 3.27 m 1H 4.19 dd 1H 6.78 q 1H 7.26 m 2H 7.35 d 3H 7.49 m 2H 8.02 d 2H 8.66 s 1H .

6.22. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 5 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxybenzylamino pyrazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

A mixture of 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzaldehyde 417 mg 1.895 mmol 2 amino 5 bromopyrazine 300 mg 1.724 mmol sodium triacetoxyborohydride 1.5 eq and glacial acetic acid 3 eq in dichloromethane 10 ml was stirred at room temperature overnight. Then the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with water. The organic layer was dried over MgSOand filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to give the crude product which was purified by ISCO SiOflash column chromatography Hexane ethyl acetate 100 0 to 3 2 to give about 400 mg of 6 bromo pyrazin 2 yl 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzyl amine. Yield 61 .

To a 5 ml microwave vial the above 6 bromo pyrazin 2 yl 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzyl amine 50 mg 0.132 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 30 mg 0.144 mmol NaCO 31 mg 0.288 mmol acetonitrile 2 ml and water 2 ml . Dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium 5 mg 0.007 mmol was added. The vial was capped and stirred at 150 C. for 5 minutes under microwave radiation. The reaction mixture was cooled filtered through a syringe filter and then separated by a reverse phase preparative HPLC using YMC Pack ODS 100 30 mm ID column MeOH HO TFA solvent system . The pure fractions were concentrated in vacuum. The product was then suspended in 5 ml of water frozen and lyophilized to give the title compound as a trifluoro salt 12 mg 20 . H NMR CDOD 8.41 s 1H 7.99 s 1H 7.83 d J 9.0 Hz 2H 7.37 d J 6.0 Hz 2H 6.90 6.95 m 3H 4.78 m 1H 4.50 s 2H 4.22 4.26 m 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.12 3.39 m 2H 1.80 1.81 m 6H 1.60 m 2H . M 1 463.

6.23. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 5 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxybenzyl methyl amino pyrazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

To a solution of 6 bromo pyrazin 2 yl 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzyl amine 70 mg 0.185 mmol in acetonitrile 10 ml was added formaldehyde 18.5 mmol and sodium cyanoborohydride 17 mg 0.278 mmol . Then concentrated aqueous HCl was added dropwise until the pH 2. The mixture was stirred for about 6 hours at room temperature. It was then diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water 3 5 ml dried over MgSO. The solvent was removed by vacuum to give 70 mg of crude product 5 bromo pyrazin 2 yl 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzyl methyl amine 95 crude yield which was used in the next step without further purification.

The 5 bromo pyrazin 2 yl 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzyl methyl amine 37 mg 0.094 mmol was subjected to a Suzuki coupling reaction as described above to afford 6 mg of the title compound. Yield 13 . H NMR CDOD 8.59 s 1H 8.12 s 1H 7.85 d 2H 7.39 d 2H 6.81 6.91 m 3H 4.72 m 1H 4.30 m 1H 3.79 s 3H 3.20 3.40 m 2H 3.18 s 3H 3.79 s 3H 1.80 m 6H 1.58 m 2H . M 1 477.

6.24. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 5 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl methylamino pyrazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

A mixture of 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazole 4 carbaldehyde 142 mg 1.145 mmol 2 amino 5 bromopyrazine 200 mg 1.149 mmol borane trimethylamine complex 126 mg 1.73 mmol and glacial acetic acid 137 mg 2.29 mmol in anhydrous methonol 3 ml was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water dried over MgSOand filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to give 300 mg of 5 bromo pyrazin 2 yl 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 4 ylmethyl amine as crude product which was used for next step reaction without further purification. Crude yield 93 .

The 5 bromo pyrazin 2 yl 1 3 dimethyl 1H pyrazol 4 ylmethyl amine 40 mg 0.142 mmol was used in the Suzuki coupling reaction described above to afford 19 mg of the title compound. Yield 36.5 . H NMR CDOD 8.48 s 1H 8.05 s 1H 7.87 d 2H 7.39 d 2H 6.10 s 1H 4.81 s 2H 4.30 m 1H 3.83 s 3H 3.11 3.38 m 2H 2.10 s 3H . M 1 367.

6.25. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 4 amino 6 S 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yloxy phenyl propanoic acid

To a 250 ml flask R 1 2 naphthyl ethylamine 400 mg 2.424 mmol 2 amino 4 6 dichloro triazine 373 mg 2.181 mmol anhydrous 1 4 dioxane 40 ml and N N diisopropylethylamine 1 ml 5.732 mmol were added and heated to mild reflux for about 4 hours. The reaction was monitored carefully in order to avoid the formation of the disubstituted product. It was observed that the longer the reaction the more disubstituted product is formed . After 4 hours the reaction mixture was cooled and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Water was added to the residue and the solution was sonicated for 2 3 minutes. The solvent was then filtered washed with water and dried to give 540 mg 83 crude yield of the mono chloride 6 chloro N 1 naphthalen 2yl ethyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 2 diamine which was used for the next step reaction without further purification.

A mixture of 6 chloro N 1 naphthalen 2yl ethyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 2 diamine 90 mg 0.300 mmol 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 hydroxy phenyl propionic acid tert butyl ester 102 mg 0.303 mmol and potassium carbonate 82 mg 0.594 mmol in isopropanol 8 ml was refluxed over night. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was suspended in ethyl acetate. The solid was filtered and washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was concentrated and then redissolved in a mixture of methanol water 90 10 and purified by a preparative LC using a Sunfire C18 OBD 100 30 mm ID column MeOH HO TFA solvent system . The pure fractions were combined and concentrated to give 50 mg of pure product 3 4 4 amino 6 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2yloxy phenyl2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid tert butyl ester 28 yield .

The above product 50 mg 0.083 mmol was dissolved in trifluoro acetic acid dichloromethane 8 ml 2 ml and stirred at room temperature over night. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was then redissolved in a mixture of methanol water 90 10 and purified by a preparative LC using a Sunfire C18 OBD 100 30 mm ID column MeOH HO TFA solvent system . The pure fractions were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford about 4 ml which was frozen and lyophilized to give 4 mg of the title compound as a TFA salt 11 yield . H NMR CDOD 7.37 7.81 m 8H 7.19 m 2H 6.98 m 1H 5.37 m 1H 4.19 m 1H 3.17 3.38 m 2H 1.56 m 3H . M 1 445.

6.26. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 4 amino 6 R 1 biphenyl 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

A mixture of 1 biphenyl 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanone 300 mg 1.2 mmol borane tetrahydrofuran complexes 1.2 ml 1M in THF 1.2 mmol and S 2 methyl CBS oxazaborolidine 0.24 ml 1M in toluene 0.24 mmol in THF 8 ml was stirred at room temperature over night. Several drops of concentrated HCl were added and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. The product was purified by SiOchromatography hexane ethyl acetate 100 0 to 3 1 to give 290 mg of 1 biphenyl 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 96 yield .

The above alcohol 290 mg 1.151 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous THF 10 ml . Sodium hydride 55 mg 1.375 mmol was added all at once and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The solution was then transferred into a flask that contained a suspension of 2 amino 4 6 dichloro triazine 190 mg 1.152 mmol in THF 20 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Water was added and the mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with water dried over MgSOand then concentrated to give 400 mg of crude product 2 amino 4 1 biphenyl 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy 6 chloro triazine.

The 2 amino 4 1 biphenyl 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy 6 chloro triazine 40 mg 0.105 mmol was subjected to the same Suzuki coupling reaction as described above to afford 5 mg of the title compound. Yield 9.4 . H NMR CDOD 8.18 d 2H 7.86 m 1H 7.40 7.52 m 9H 7.32 m 1H 7.07 m 1H 4.32 m 1H 3.22 3.41 m 2H . M 1 510.

6.27. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 4 amino 6 1 6 8 difluoronaphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

In a three neck flask copper iodine CuI 299 mg 1.515 mmol and lithium chloride LiCl 145 mg 3.452 mmol were added under nitrogen to anhydrous THF 60 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature until a pale yellow solution was obtained. After cooling to 0 C. methyl vinyl ketone and chlorotrimethylsilane were added and the mixture was stirred until an orange color was observed 20 min . After cooling to about 40 C. a solution of 3 5 difluorophenylmagnesium bromide 27.65 ml 13.8 mmol in THF 0.5M was slowly added. The reaction mixture was stirred at about 40 C. for 0.5 hours then the cold bath was removed and the temperature was allowed to rise slowly to room temperature. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was extracted with hexane 4 20 ml . The collected extractions were washed with cold 10 aqueous NaHCOand dried over NaSO. The solvent was evaporated at reduced pressure to afford 3 5 difluorophenyl 1 trimethylsilyloxyalkene 2.03 g 7.929 mmol 57 crude yield which was used in the successive reaction without further purification.

Powered calcium carbonate 3.806 g 38.06 mmol and ethyl vinyl ether 2.184 g 30.329 mmol were added to a solution of ceric ammonium nitrate 10.430 g 19.033 mmol in methanol 40 ml under nitrogen atmosphere. To the resulting suspension was added a solution of above made 3 5 difluorophenyl 1 trimethylsilyloxyalkene 2.03 g 7.929 mmol in ethyl vinyl 6 ml 4.518 g 62.75 mmol dropwise under vigorous stirring and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solid was filtered through a celite layer and the filtrate was concentrated to one fourth of its initial volume. The resulting thick mixture was slowly poured under vigorous stirring into 1 1v v diethyl ether 10 aqueous NaHCO. The precipitate was filtered off the ethereal solution was separated and the solvent was evaporated at reduced pressure to give clear liquid. The solution of resulting liquid a mixture of acyclic and cyclic acetates in methanol 4 ml was added dropwise to a suspension of dichlorodicyanobenzoquinone 1.77 g 7.797 mmol in 80 aqueous sulfuric acid at 0 C. After the addition was complete the ice bath was removed and stirring was continued for 30 minutes. The mixture was poured into ice water and the resulting brown precipitate was filtered and dissolved in acetone. Silica gel was added to make a plug and the crude product was purified by chromatography hexane ethyl acetate 100 0 to 3 1 to give 760 mg of 1 5 7 difluoro naphthalen 2 yl ethanone 48 in two step yield as a light yellow solid.

The above ketone 760 mg 3.689 mmol was dissolved in methanol 40 ml . Then ammonium acetate 2.841 g 36.896 mmol sodium cyanoborohydride 232 mg 3.389 mmol and molecular sieves 3 7.6 g were added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for two days. The solid was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in water and concentrated aqueous HCl was added dropwise until the pH 2. The mixture was then extracted with ethyl acetate to remove the unfinished ketone and other by products. The water layer was basified to pH 10 with aqueous sodium hydroxide 1M and was extracted with dichloromethane and the organic layers were combined dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated to afford 290 mg of 1 5 7 difluoro naphthalen 2 yl ethylamine 38 yield .

The fresh made amine 290 mg 1.401 mmol was added directly to a suspension of 2 amino 4 6 dichloro triazine 277 mg 1.678 mmol in anhydrous 1 4 dioxane 60 ml and followed by addition of N N diisopropylethylamine 1 ml 5.732 mmol . The mixture was heated to mild reflux for about 3 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled and the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. To the residue was added water and the mixture was sonicated for 2 3 minutes. The resulting solid was filtered and washed with water and dried to give 395 mg 60 crude yield of 6 chloro N 1 6 8 difluoro naphthalen 2 yl ethyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diamine which was used for the next step reaction directly without further purification.

The above made mono chloride 48 mg 0.144 mmol was subjected to the same Suzuki coupling reaction as described above to afford 12 mg of the title product. Yield 17.9 . H NMR CDOD 8.14 8.22 m 2H 8.05 m 1H 7.92 m 1H 7.63 m 1H 7.32 7.51 m 3H 7.11 m 1H 5.48 m 1H 4.13 m 1H 3.13 3.41 m 2H 1.66 d 3H . M 1 465.

6.28. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 4 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 methylbiphenyl 2 yl ethoxy 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

To a mixture of 3 methyl 1 biphenyl 2 carbaldehyde 500 mg 2.551 mmol and trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane 435 mg 3.061 mmol in THF 3 ml was added tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride 13 mg 0.05 mmol at 0 C. The temperature was allowed to warm to room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 5 hours at room temperature then diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water and brine and dried by MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give 660 mg 97 crude yield of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 methyl biphenyl 2 yl ethanol as crude product which was used for next step without further purification.

The above made alcohol 660 mg 2.481 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous 1 4 dioxane 10 ml . Sodium hydride 119 mg 60 in mineral oil 2.975 mmol was added all at once and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The solution was transferred into a flask containing a suspension of 2 amino 4 6 dichloro triazine 491 mg 2.976 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 70 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was suspended in ethyl acetate which was washed with water dried over MgSOand then concentrated to give 790 mg of crude product which contained about 57 of the desired product 2 amino 4 1 3 methyl biphenyl 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy 6 chloro triazine and about 43 byproduct the bisubstituted product . The crude product was used without further purification.

The 2 amino 4 1 3 methyl biphenyl 2 yl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy 6 chloro triazine 98 mg 57 purity 0.142 mmol was used to run the same Suzuki coupling reaction as described above to afford 9 mg of the title compound. Yield 12.0 . H NMR CDOD 8.09 m 2H 7.85 m 1H 7.50 m 2H 7.28 7.43 m 5H 7.17 7.26 m 2H 7.18 m 1H 3.85 m 1H 3.08 3.44 m 2H 2.33 s 3H . M 1 524.

To a mixture of 3 4 dimethoxy phenylamine 0.306 g 2 mmol and triethylamine 0.557 ml 4 mmol in dichloromethane 20 ml was added 5 chloro pyrazine 2 carbonyl chloride 0.354 g 2 mmol at 0 5 C. The mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature for 3 hours. The mixture was diluted with methylene chloride 20 ml washed with saturated NaHCO 20 ml brine 20 ml dried anhyd. NaSO and concentrated to get 0.42 g of crude 5 chloro pyrazine 2 carboxylic acid 3 4 dimethoxy phenyl amide which was directly used in the next reaction.

5 Chloro pyrazine 2 carboxylic acid 3 4 dimethoxy phenyl amide 0.18 g 0.61 mmol L p borono phenylalanine 0.146 g 0.70 mmol CHCN 2.5 ml HO 2.5 ml NaCO 0.129 g 1.22 mmol were combined in a microwave vial. The mixture was sealed and kept at 150 C. for 5 minutes. The mixture was filtered and concentrated. The residue was dissolved in methanol water 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as solvent system to afford 2 amino 3 4 5 3 4 dimethoxy phenylcarbomyl pyrazin 2yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt HPLC Method A Retention time 2.846 min LCMS M 1 423 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 3.10 3.30 m 2H 3.72 d 6H 4.05 m 1H 7.42 7.62 m 4H 8.22 m 3H 9.30 m 2H .

6.30. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 4 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl piperidin 1 yl pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 0.164 g 1 mmol 4 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl piperidine hydrochloride 0.266 g 1 mmol and cesium carbonate 0.684 g 2.1 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of 1 4 dioxane 5 ml and HO 5 ml in a 20 ml microwave vial. The mixture was stirred at 210 C. for 20 minutes in a microwave reactor. Solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in 5 methanol in CHCl 20 ml dried over NaSOand concentrated to get the crude intermediate 4 chloro 6 4 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl piperidin 1 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine 0.42 g which was directly used in the following step.

The crude intermediate 0.42 g L p borono phenylalanine 0.209 g 1 mmol sodium carbonate 0.210 g 2 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 35 mg 0.05 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of MeCN 2.5 ml and HO 2.5 ml in a 10 ml microwave vial. The vial was sealed and stirred in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for 6 minutes. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as the solvent system to afford 2 amino 3 4 4 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl piperidine 1yl pyrimidin 4yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt. HPLC Method A Retention time 3.203 min. LCMS M 1 486. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.80 2.20 m 5H 3.0 3.16 m 2H 3.22 3.42 m 2H 4.22 t 1H 4.42 4.54 m 1H 5.22 5.34 m 1H 6.80 s 1H 7.40 t 1H 7.50 7.60 m 4H 7.68 d 1H 7.82 d 2H .

6.31. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 R 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 0.164 g 1 mmol R 1 2 naphthyl ethylamine 0.171 g 1 mmol and cesium carbonate 0.358 g 1.1 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of 1 4 dioxane 4 ml and HO 4 ml in a 20 ml microwave vial. The vial was sealed and stirred at 210 C. for 20 minutes in a microwave reactor. Solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in CHCl 50 ml washed with water 20 ml brine 20 ml dried NaSO and concentrated to afford the crude intermediate 6 chloro N 4 naphthalene 2yl ethyl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.270 g which was directly used in the following step.

The crude intermediate 0.27 g L p borono phenylalanine 0.210 g 1 mmol sodium carbonate 0.210 g 2 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 25 mg 0.036 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of MeCN 2.5 ml and HO 2.5 ml in a microwave vial. The vial was sealed and stirred in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 6 minutes. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as the solvent system to afford 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 1 naphthalen 2yl ethylamino pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt. HPLC Method A Retention time 3.276 min. LCMS M 1 428. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.68 d 3H 3.22 3.40 m 2H 4.30 t 1H 5.60 q 1H 6.42 s 1H 7.42 7.54 m 5H 7.72 m 2H 7.82 7.84 m 4H .

6.32. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 methyl R 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethyl amino pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 0.327 g 2 mmol methyl 1 naphthalen 2yl ethyl amine 0.360 g 2 mmol and cesium carbonate 0.717 g 2.2 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of 1 4 dioxane 7.5 ml and HO 7.5 ml in a 20 ml microwave vial. The vial was sealed and stirred at 210 C. for 20 minutes in a microwave reactor. Solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in CHCl 50 ml washed with water 20 ml brine 20 ml dried NaSO and concentrated to get the crude intermediate 6 chloro N 4 methyl N 4 1 napthalen 2 yl ethyl pyrimidine 2 4 diamine 0.600 g which was directly used in the following step.

The crude intermediate 0.30 g L p borono phenylalanine 0.210 g 1 mmol sodium carbonate 0.210 g 2 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 25 mg 0.036 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of MeCN 2.5 ml and HO 2.5 ml in a microwave vial. The vial was sealed and stirred in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 6 minutes. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as the solvent system to afford 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 methyl 1 naphthalen 2yl ethyl amino pyrimidin 4yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt HPLC Method C Retention time 2.945 min LCMS M 1 442 H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.70 m 3H 2.92 s 3H 3.22 3.42 m 2H 4.28 m 1H 6.60 s 1H 6.72 m 1H 7.40 7.92 m 11H .

6.33. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 S 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 6 methoxynaphthalen 2 yl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 0.096 g 0.6 mmol 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 6 methoxy naphthalen 2 yl ethanol 0.140 g 0.55 mmol and NaH 96 mg 0.60 mmol were added to anhydrous dioxane 20 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction was stirred at 80 C. for 12 hours cooled to room temperature and quenched with water 0.2 ml . The reaction mixture was concentrated and the residue dissolved in CHCl 50 ml washed with water 20 ml brine 20 ml dried NaSO and concentrated to afford the crude intermediate 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 6 methoxy naphthalene 2 yl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine 0.22 g which was directly used in the following step.

The crude intermediate 0.22 g L p borono phenylalanine 0.126 g 0.6 mmol sodium carbonate 0.126 g 1.2 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 15 mg 0.021 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of MeCN 2.0 ml and HO 2.0 ml in a microwave vial. The vial was sealed and stirred in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 6 minutes. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as the solvent system to afford 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 6 methoxy naphthalen 2 yl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt HPLC Method C Retention time 3.190 min. LCMS M 1 513. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 3.22 3.42 m 2H 3.86 s 3H 4.32 1H 6.88 m 1H 6.92 1H 7.20 dd 1H 7.26 s 1H 7.50 d 2H 7.63 d 1H 7.80 7.90 m 4H 8.05 s 1H .

4 Phenylbenzaldehyde 0.3 g 1.65 mmol and 2 amino 5 bromopyrazine 0.24 g 1.37 mmol were treated with Na OAc BH 0.44 g 2.06 mmol in dichloroethane 7.0 mls and acetic acid 0.25 mls for 18 hours at room temperature. The mixture was diluted with dichloromethane washed with 1.0 N NaOH washed with brine dried over MgSO and concentrated. Chromatography SiO EtOAc Hex 1 1 gave 0.18 g of N biphenyl 4 ylmethyl 5 bromopyrazin 2 amine.

N biphenyl 4 ylmethyl 5 bromopyrazin 2 amine 60 mg 0.176 mmol L p boronophenylalanine 37 mg 0.176 mmol palladiumtriphenylphosphine dichloride 3.6 mg 0.0052 mmol NaCO 37 mg 0.353 mmol acetonitrile 1.25 mls and water 1.25 mls were heated in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for 5 minutes. The mixture was concentrated dissolved in 1.0 N HCl washed twice with ether concentrated and purified by preprative HPLC to give 41 mgs of the title compound. M 1 425 H NMR CDOD 8.42 s 1H 8.05 s 1H 7.92 d 2H 7.58 d 4H 7.40 m 7H 4.60 s 2H 4.25 m 1H 3.40 m 1H 3.20 m 1H .

2 Napthaldehyde 0.6 g 3.84 mmol and 2 amino 5 bromopyrazine 0.56 g 3.201 mmol were treated with Na OAc BH 1.02 g 4.802 mmol in dichloroethane 15.0 mls and acetic acid 0.5 mls for 18 hours at room temperature. The mixture was diluted with dichloromethane washed with 1.0 N NaOH washed with brine dried over MgSO and concentrated. Chromatography SiO EtOAc Hex 1 1 gave 0.49 g 5 bromo N naphthalen 2 ylmethyl pyrazin 2 amine.

5 Bromo N naphthalen 2 ylmethyl pyrazin 2 amine 0.2 g 0.637 mmol L p boronophenylalanine 0.13 g 0.637 mmol palladiumtriphenylphosphine dichloride 13 mg 0.019 mmol NaCO 0.13 g 1.27 mmol acetonitrile 5 mls and water 5 mls were heated in a microwave reactor at 150 C. for 5 minutes. The mixture was concentrated dissolved in 1.0 N HCl washed twice with ether concentrated dissolved in methanol filtered and concentrated to yield 0.12 g of the captioned compound. M 1 399 H NMR CDOD 8.51 s 1H 8.37 s 1H 7.90 m 6H 7.50 m 5H 4.85 s 2H 4.30 t 1H 3.38 m 1H 3.22 m 1H .

6.36. Synthesis of S 2 Tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 5 naphthalen 2 ylmethylamino pyrazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

 S 2 Amino 3 4 5 naphthalen 2 ylmethylamino pyrazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid 0.15 g 0.345 mmol was treated with triethylamine 87 mg 0.862 mmol and boc anhydride 84 mg 0.379 in dioxane 3 ml and HO 3 ml at 0 C. The mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight. The mixture was concentrated and partitioned between EtOAc and HO. The aqueous phase was acidified to pH 1 with 1.0 N HCl and extracted with EtOAc. The organics were combined washed with brine dried over MgSO and concentrated to yield 48 mg of the captioned compound.

6.37. Synthesis of S 2 Morpholinoethyl 2 amino 3 4 5 naphthalen 2 ylmethylamino pyrazin 2 yl phenyl propanoate

 S 2 Tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 5 naphthalen 2 ylmethylamino pyrazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid 48 mg 0.090 mmol 4 2 hydroxyethyl morpholine 12 mg 0.090 mmol triethylamine 18 mg 0.180 mmol and benzotriazole 1 yloxytris dimethylamino phosphonium hexaflurophosphate BOP 18 mg 0.090 mmol in dichloromethane 3.0 ml were stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. Additional triethylamine 18 mg 0.180 mmol and BOP 18 mg 0.090 mmol were added and the mixture was stirred overnight. The mixture was concentrated and purified via prep HPLC to give 2 mg of the captioned compound.

6.38. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 fluorobiphenyl 4 yl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

To 4 bromo 2 2 2 trifluoroacetophenone 5.0 g 19.76 mmol in THF 50 mls at 0 C. was added NaBH 1.5 g 39.52 mmol . The mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 1 hour. The reaction was complete by TLC CHCl . The mixture was quenched with HO rotary evaporated to remove most of the THF and extracted 2 times with CHCl. The organics were combined washed with brine concentrated to a small volume and filtered through a plug of silica gel. The silica was washed with CHClto elute the product and the resulting solution was concentrated to give 4.65 g of 1 4 bromophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethanol. Yield 92 .

To Pd PPh 2.1 g 1.823 mmol was added 3 fluorophenylmagnesium bromide 55 mls 1.0 M in THF 55 mmol at 0 C. over 15 minutes. The ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. 1 4 Bromophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethanol 4.65 g 18.23 mmol in THF 50 mls was added over 10 minutes. The mixture was heated to reflux for 3 hours and was shown complete by LC Sunfire column TFA . The mixture was cooled quenched with HO rotary evaporated to remove most of the THF and extracted 3 times with CHCl. The organics were combined washed with brine dried over MgSO and concentrated. Chromatography SiO CHCl gave 4.64 g of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 fluorobiphenyl 4 yl ethanol. Yield 94 .

To 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 fluorobiphenyl 4 yl ethanol 1.4 g 5.18 mmol in THF 50 mls at 0 C. was added NaH 60 in mineral oil 0.31 g 7.77 mmol . The ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred for 30 minutes. 2 Amino 4 6 dichloropyrimidine 1.0 g 6.22 mmol in THF 25 mls was added at once. The mixture was heated to 50 C. for 5 hours. The reaction was complete by LCMS Sunfire TFA . The mixture was cooled quenched with brine and extracted 3 times with CHCl. The organics were combined washed with brine dried over MgSO and concentrated. Chromatography SiO CHCl afforded 1.48 g of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 fluorobiphenyl 4 yl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 amine. Yield 73 .

4 Chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 fluorobiphenyl 4 yl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 amine 0.75 g 1.89 mmol L p boronophenylalanine 0.47 g 2.26 mmol Pd PPh Cl 79 mgs 0.113 mmol NaCO 0.44 g 4.15 mmol acetonitrile 10 mls and HO 10 mls were combined in a 20 ml microwave reactor and heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 7 minutes. The reaction was complete by LCMS Sunfire neutral . The mixture was concentrated dissolved in NaOH 20 mls 0.5 N filtered extracted with ether three times and cooled to 0 C. At 0 C. 1.0 N HCl was added slowly until a pH of 6.5 was attained. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 30 minutes and the product was filtered dried in air treated with excess 2.0 N HCl in ether concentrated then triturated with CHClto give 1.12 g 99 95.5 purity . 385 mgs were purified via prep HPLC Sunfire TFA concentrated treated with excess 1.0 N HCl aq. concentrated to a small volume and lyophilized to afford 240 mgs of the captioned compound. M 1 527 H NMR CDOD 7.86 d 2H 7.64 s 4H 7.49 d 2H 7.36 m 2H 7.28 m 1H 7.02 m 1H 6.95 s 1H 6.75 q 1H 4.26 t 1H 3.32 m 1H 3.21 m 1H .

Benzylmercaptan 0.14 g 1.11 mmol was treated with NaH 60 in mineral oil 67 mg 1.66 mmol in dry THF 15 ml for 30 minutes. 2 Amino 4 6 dichloropyrimidine 0.2 g 1.22 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred overnight. The mixture was diluted with methylenechloride washed with water then brine dried over MgSO and concentrated to give 0.11 g of 4 benzylthio 6 chloropyrimidin 2 amine.

4 Benzylthio 6 chloropyrimidin 2 amine 0.1 g 0.397 mmol L p boronophenylalanine 0.1 g 0.477 mmol Pd PPh Cl 17 mg 0.024 mmol NaCO 93 mg 0.874 mmol MeCN 2.5 ml and water 2.5 ml were heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes in a microwave. The mixture was concentrated and purified via prep HPLC to give 0.42 g of the title compound. M 1 381 H NMR CDOD 7.8 d 2H 7.37 t 4H 7.23 m 2H 7.16 m 1H 6.98 s 1H 4.43 s 2H 4.20 t 1H 3.29 m 1H 3.13 M 1H .

6.40. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 naphthalen 2 ylmethylthio pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

2 Mercaptonapthalene 0.2 g 1.148 was treated with NaH 60 in Mineral oil 92 mg 2.30 mmol in dry THF 10 ml for 30 minutes. 2 Amino 4 6 dichloropyrimidine 0.21 g 1.26 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred overnight. The mixture was diluted with methylenechloride washed with water then brine dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to give 0.18 g 4 chloro 6 naphthalen 2 ylmethylthio pyrimidin 2 amine.

4 Chloro 6 naphthalen 2 ylmethylthio pyrimidin 2 amine 0.1 g 0.331 mmol L p boronophenylalanine 83 mg 0.397 mmol Pd PPh Cl 14 mg 0.020 mmol NaCO 77 mg 0.729 mmol MeCN 2.5 ml and water 2.5 ml were heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes in a microwave. The mixture was concentrated and purified via prep HPLC to give 57 mg of the title compound. M 1 431 H NMR CDOD 7.85 s 1H 7.79 d 2H 7.72 d 3H 7.46 dd 1H 7.35 m 4H 6.95 s 1H 4.58 s 2H 4.17 m 1H 3.26 m 1H 3.11 m 1H .

6.41. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 1 3 4 difluorophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

3 5 Difluorophenyl trifluoromethyl ketone was treated with NaBH 0.18 g 4.76 mmol in THF 5 ml for 2 hours. The mixture was quenched with water extracted with methylene chloride 2 . The organics were combined filtered through silica gel and concentrated to give 0.46 g of 1 3 4 difluorophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethanol.

1 3 4 Difluorophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethanol 0.1 g 0.471 mmol was treated with NaH 60 in mineral oil 38 mg 0.943 mmol in dry THF 3 ml for 30 minutes. 2 Amino 4 6 dichloropyrimidine 77 mg 0.471 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 6 hours. The mixture was quenched with water and extracted with methylenechloride 2 . The organics were combined washed with water then brine dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to give 0.14 g of 4 chloro 6 1 3 4 difluorophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy pyrimidin 2 amine.

4 Chloro 6 1 3 4 difluorophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethoxy pyrimidin 2 amine 0.14 g 0.421 mmol L p boronophenylalanine 110 mg 0.505 mmol Pd PPh Cl 18 mg 0.025 mmol NaCO 98 mg 0.926 mmol MeCN 2.5 ml and water 2.5 ml were heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes in a microwave. The mixture was concentrated and purified via prep HPLC to give 74 mg of the title compound. M 1 469 H NMR CDOD 7.83 d 2H 7.47 m 1H 7.38 m 4H 7.28 m 1H 4.21 t 1H 3.29 m 1H 3.15 m 1H .

6.42. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 methylbiphenyl 2 yl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

To 4 bromo 2 2 2 trifluoroacetophenone 5.0 g 19.76 mmol in THF 50 mls at 0 C. was added NaBH 1.5 g 39.52 mmol . The mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 1 hour. The reaction was complete by TLC CHCl . The mixture was quenched with HO rotary evaporated to remove most of the THF and extracted 2 times with CHCl. The organics were combined washed with brine concentrated to a small volume and filtered through a plug of silica gel. The silica was washed with CHClto elute the product and the resulting solution was concentrated to give 4.65 g of 1 4 bromophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethanol. Yield 92 . 1 4 Bromophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethanol 0.13 g 0.525 mmol m tolylboronic acid 0.1 g 0.736 mmol Fibercat 4.28 Pd 47 mgs 0.0157 mmol Pd KCO 0.22 g 1.576 mmol EtOH 3 mls and HO 0.5 mls were combined and heated at 80 C. for 4 hours. The reaction was shown complete by TLC CHCl . The mixture was cooled filtered concentrated slurried in CHCl and chromatographed over silica gel CHCl to give 0.1 g of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 methylbiphenyl 2 yl ethanol. Yield 72 .

Alternatively 1 4 bromophenyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethanol 0.98 g 3.86 mmol m tolylboronic acid 0.63 g 4.63 mmol Pd PPh Cl 0.16 g 0.232 mmol Pd NaCO 0.90 g 8.49 mmol AcCN 10 mls and HO 10 mls were combined and heated in the microwave at 150 C. for 10 minutes. The reaction was shown complete by TLC CHCl . The mixture was cooled concentrated slurried in CHCl filtered and chromatographed over silica gel CHCl to give 0.80 g of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 methylbiphenyl 2 yl ethanol. Yield 79 .

Alternatively tetrabutylammoniumfluoride TBAF 1.0 N in THF 13 uL 3.3 mg 0.013 mmol was added to a mixture of 3 methyl biphenyl 2 carboxaldehyde 0.25g 1.27 mmol and trifluoromethytrimethyl silane 0.25 g 1.53 mmol in THF 1.5 ml at 0 C. The reaction was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. HCl 3.0 N 2.0 ml was added and the mixture was stirred for 3 hours. The mixture was concentrated dissolved in methylene chloride filtered through silica gel and concentrated to give 0.15 g of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 methylbiphenyl 2 yl ethanol.

2 2 2 Trifluoro 1 3 methylbiphenyl 2 yl ethanol 0.15 g 0.563 mmol was treated with NaH 60 in mineral oil 45 mg 1.12 mmol in dry THF 5 ml for 30 minutes. 2 Amino 4 6 dichloropyrimidine 92 mg 0.5633 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred at 50 C. for 6 hours. The mixture was quenched with water and extracted with methylenechloride 2 . The organics were combined washed with water then brine dried over MgSO4 and concentrated to give 0.16 g of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 methylbiphenyl 2 yl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 amine.

4 Chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 3 methylbiphenyl 2 yl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 amine 0.16 g 0.406 mmol L p boronophenylalanine 10 mg 0.487 mmol Pd PPh Cl 17 mg 0.024 mmol NaCO 95 mg 0.894 mmol MeCN 2.5 ml and water 2.5 ml were heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes in a microwave. The mixture was concentrated and purified via prep HPLC to give 105 mg of the title compound. M 1 523 H NMR CDOD 7.85 d 2H 7.70 d 1H 7.44 m 4H 7.31 t 1H 7.21 m 2H 7.10 m 2H 6.87 q 1H 6.84 s 1H 4.25 t 1H 3.30 m 1H 3.18 m 1H .

6.43. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 5 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxybenzylamino pyridin 3 yl phenyl propanoic acid

Sodium triacetoxyl borohydride 245 mg 1.16 mmol was added to the solution of 5 bromo pyridine 3 amine 100 mg 0.57 mmol and 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxy benzaldehyde 127 mg 0.57 mmol in 10 ml of 1 2 dicloroethtane DCE of HOAc 66 L 2eq. 1.16 mmol was added the mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature followed by addition of 15 ml of DCE. The organic phase was washed with water and dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by under reduced pressure to give 200 mg of crude 5 bromo N 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxybenzyl pyridin 3 amine which was used for the next step without further purification.

An Emrys process vial 2 5 ml for microwave was charged with 5 bromo N 3 cyclopentyloxy 4 methoxybenzyl pyridin 3 amine 40 mg 0.106 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 22 mg 0.106 mmol and 2 ml of acetonitrile. Aqueous sodium carbonate 2 ml 1M was added to above solution followed by 10 mol percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 180 C. for 10 minutes with a microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and purified with Prep LC to give 20 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 5 3 cyclophentyloxy 4 methoxy benzylamino pyridine 3 yl phenyl propanoic acid. NMR H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.59 m 2H 1.7 m 6H 3.17 m 1H 3.3 m 1H 3.75 s 3H 4.2 dd 1H 4.39 s 2H 4.7 m 1H 6.9 m 3H 7.4 d 2H 7.6 d 2H 7.7 s 1H 7.9 s 1H 8.15 s 1H Analytical HPLC RT 2.69 M 1 462 RT 1.285 .

6.44. Synthesis of 2 Amino 3 3 4 amino 6 R 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

To a solution of tert butyl 2 diphenylmethylene amino acetate 400 mg 1.35 mmol in THF 25 ml was added a solution of LDA 1.8M in THF 2eq 2.7 mmol fresh bottle from Aldrich over 5 minutes at 78 C. and the resulting mixture was stirred for 20 minutes. A solution of 2 3 bromomethyl phenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborinane 460 mg 1.2eq. 1.62 mmol in THF 10 ml was added drop wise to the reaction mixture over 5 minutes. The reaction was continued at same 78 C. temperature for 30 minutes and left for 3 hours at room temperature. The reaction was quenched with saturated NHCl followed by the addition of water 30 ml and was extracted with EtOAc 2 40 ml . The organic fractions were combined and dried over NaSO. The solvent was then concentrated at reduced pressure and crude tert Butyl 3 3 5 5 dimethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborinan 2 yl phenyl 2 diphenylmethylene amino propionate was purified by column chromatography to provide the product as a semi solid.

An Emrys process vial 20 ml for microwave was charged with R 6 chloro N 1 naphthalene 2 yl ethyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diamine 100 mg 0.33 mmol tert butyl 3 3 5 5 dimethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborinan 2 yl phenyl 2 diphenyl methyleneamino propanoate 248 mg 0.5 mmol 1.5eq. and 6 ml of acetonitrile plus 6 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M was added to above solution followed by 10 mol percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 190 C. for 10 minutes with microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 10 ml of THF to which was added 5N.HCl 5 ml . The mixture was refluxed for 2 hours in order to deprotect the benzophone and tert butyl groups. The resulting reaction mixture was concentrated and dissolved in methanol 8 ml and purified with Prep LC to afford 15 mg of 2 amino 3 4 4 amino 6 R 1 naphthalene 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 trizin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid. NMR H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.85 d 3H 3.2 3.45 m 2H 4.37 m 1H 5.5 m 1H 7.4 m 1H 7.6 m 4H 7.9 m 4H 8.18 m 2H Analytical HPLC RT 2.79 M 1 429 RT 1.35 .

6.45. Synthesis of 2 Amino 3 4 4 amino 6 R 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl 2 fluorophenyl propanoic acid

To a solution of tert butyl 2 diphenylmethylene amino acetate 1.1 g 3.73 mmol in THF 30 ml was added a solution of LDA 1.8M in THF 1eq 3.73 mmol fresh bottle from Aldrich over 5 minutes at 78 C. and the resulting mixture was stirred for 20 minutes. A solution of 4 bromo 1 bromomethyl 2 fluorobenezene 1 g 3.74 mmol in THF 10 ml was added drop wise to the reaction mixture over 5 minutes. The reaction was continued at 78 C. for 30 minutes after which it was left at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction was quenched with saturated NHCl after which water 30 ml was added. Product was extracted with EtOAc 2 40 ml and the organic fractions were combined and dried over NaSO. The solvent was concentrated at reduced pressure and crude tert Butyl 3 4 bromo 2 fluorophenyl 2 diphenylmethyleneamino propanoate was purified by column chromatography. The product was obtained as a solid.

An Emrys process vial 20 ml for microwave was charged with tert butyl 3 4 bromo 2 fluorophenyl 2 diphenylmethylene amino propanoate 600 mg 1.24 mmol Pd dba 2 71 mg 0.124 mmol PCy3 35 mg 0.124 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 346 mg 1.1eq. 1.36 mmol and KOAc 182 mg 1.5eq. 1.86 mmol 20 ml of DMF. The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 160 C. for 20 minutes by microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in HO 30 ml extracted with EtOAc 2 40 ml and purified with Prep LC to give 220 mg of tert butyl 2 diphenylmethyleneamino 3 2 fluoro 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl propanoate.

An Emrys process vial 5 ml for microwave was charged with R 6 chloro N 1 naphthalene 2 yl ethyl 1 3 5 triazine 2 4 diamine 67 mg 0.22 mmol tert butyl 2 diphenylmethyleneamino 3 2 fluoro 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl propanoate 120 mg 0.22 mmol and 2 ml of acetonitrile. Aqueous sodium carbonate 2 ml 1M was added to above solution followed by 10 mol percent dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 190 C. for 10 minutes by microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 10 ml of THF to which 5N.HCl 2 ml was then added. The mixture was refluxed for 2 hours deprotection of benzophone and tert butyl groups . After deprotection of two groups the mixture was concentrated dissolved in methanol 5 ml and purified with Prep LC to afford 10 mg of 2 amino 3 4 4 amino 6 R 1 naphthalene 2 yl ethylamino 1 3 5 trizin 2 yl 2 fluorophenyl propanoic acid. NMR H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.6 d 3H 3.07 m 1H 3.45 m 1H 3.8 m 1H 5.45 m 1H 7.4 m 4H 7.6 m 1H 7.8 m 4H 8.08 m 1H Analytical HPLC RT 2.88 M 1 447 RT 1.44 .

6.46. Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 4 amino 6 1 adamantyll ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

A solution of adamantine amine 1 equivalent 2 amino 4 6 dichloro 1 3 5 triazine 1 equivalent and diisopropyl ethyl amine 5 equivalents Aldrich in anhydrous 1 4 dioxane was refluxed at 130 C. for 3 hours. After completion of the reaction the dioxane was removed under reduced pressure. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature water was added and product was extracted with dichloromethane 2 40 ml . The combined organic solution was dried over NaSOand concentrated to afford product which was used in the next step without purification.

An Emrys process vial 20 ml for microwave was charged with adamantine trizine chloride 200 mg 0.65 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 135 mg 0.65 mmol and 5 ml of acetonitrile. Aqueous sodium carbonate 5 ml 1M was added to above solution followed by 5 mol percent dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 190 C. for 20 minutes by microwave. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 4 ml of methanol and purified with Prep LC to give 60 mg yield 21 of coupled product. NMR H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.22 m 3H 1.6 1.8 m 12H 2.01 d 3H 3.25 3.42 m 2H 4.0 m 1H 4.40 m 1H 7.6 d 2H 8.2 d 2H Analytical HPLC RT 3.11 M 1 437 RT 1.76 .

6.47. Alternative Synthesis of 2S 2 Amino 3 4 4 amino 6 1 adamantyll ethylamino 1 3 5 triazin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

Adamantane 2 yl ethyl cyanoguanidine was prepared by forming a solution of cyanoguanidine 1 equivalent S 2 amino 3 4 cyanophenylpropanoic acid 1 equivalent and potassium tertiary butaoxide 3.5 equivalent Aldrich in dry n BuOH which was vigorously refluxed at 160 C. in a sealed tube for 2 days. After completion of the reaction the mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature and the reaction was quenched with water. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure. Again after allowing to cool to room temperature the reaction mixture was brought to pH 12 14 by adding 1N NaOH. Then impurities were removed while extracting with Ether EtOAc 9 1 2 100 ml . The aqueous solution was cooled to 0 C. 1N HCl was then added to adjust pH to 7. The pale yellow product was slowly crashed out in HO the mixture was kept in a refrigerator for 30 minutes and the solid was obtained by filtration with 92 purity. Compound was crystallized from MeOH to afford a white solid 98 pure 48 78 yield . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.0 d 3H 1.45 1.6 m 6H 4.62 4.8 m 4H 2.0 m 2H 3.3 m 1H 3.5 m 1H Analytical HPLC RT 2.69 M 1 462 RT 1.285 .

The title compound was prepared from adamantane 2 yl ethyl cyanoguanidine using the method shown in Scheme 6.

6.48. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 5 fluoro 4 R 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino pyrimidin 2 yl phenyl propanoic acid

A mixture of R 1 2 napthyl ethylamine 102.6 mg 0.599 mmol 2 4 dichloro 5 fluroro pyrimidine 100 mg 0.599 mmol and cesium carbonate 390 mg 1.2 mmol was dissolved in 1 4 dioxane 3 ml and HO 3 ml in a 10 ml microwave vial. The mixture was stirred in the microwave reactor at 80 C. for 10 minutes. The residue was dissolved in CHCl 50 ml washed with water 20 ml brine 20 ml dried NaSO and concentrated to get the crude intermediate 2 chloro 5 fluoro pyrimidin 4 yl 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethyl amine.

The crude intermediate 250 mg 0.83 mmol was then dissolved in 6.0 ml of MeCN and 6 ml of HO in a 20 ml microwave vial. To this solution were added L p borono phenylalanine 173.6 mg 0.83 mmol sodium carbonate 173.6 mg 1.66 mmol and catalytic amount of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 11.6 mg 0.0166 mmol . The reaction vial was then sealed and stirred in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 7 minutes. The contents were then filtered and the filtrate was concentrated and dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as the solvent system. The combined pure fraction were evaporated in vacuo and further dried on a lyophilizer to give 154 mg of 2 amino 3 4 5 fluoro 4 1 naphthalen 2 yl ethylamino pryrimidin 2 yl phenyl propionic acid. NMR H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.8 d 3H 3.2 3.4 m 2H 4.35 m 1H 5.7 q 1H 7.5 m 4H 7.6 d 1H 7.8 7.9 m 4H 8.1 d 2H 8.3 d 1H . LCMS M 1 431.

6.49. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 4 trifluoromethyl benzylamino pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propanoic acid

A mixture of trifluoromethyl benzylamine 106.8 mg 0.610 mmol 2 amino 4 6 dichloropyrimidine 100 mg 0.610 mmol and cesium carbonate 217 mg 1.2 mmol was dissolved in 1 4 dioxane 6 ml and HO 6 ml in a 20 ml microwave vial. The mixture was stirred in the microwave reactor at 210 C. for 25 minutes. The solvent was then removed. The residue was dissolved in CHCl 50 ml washed with water 20 ml brine 20 ml dried NaSO and concentrated to get the crude intermediate 6 chloro N 4 trifluoromethyl benzyl pryrimidine 2 4 diamine.

The crude intermediate 150 mg 0.497 mmol was then dissolved in 3.0 ml of MeCN and 3 ml of HO in a 10 ml microwave vial. To this solution were added L p borono phenylalanine 104 mg 0.497 mmol sodium carbonate 150 mg 0.994 mmol and catalytic amount of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 6.9 mg 0.00994 mmol . The reaction vial was then sealed and stirred in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 5 minutes. The contents were filtered and the filtrate was concentrated and dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using a MeOH HO TFA solvent system. The combined pure fractions were evaporated in vacuo and further dried on a lyophilizer to afford 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 4 trifluoromethyl benzylamino pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. NMR H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 3.1 3.3 m 2H 4.2 t 1H 4.7 s 2H 6.3 s 1H 7.4 7.5 m 4H 7.6 d 2H 7.7 d 2H . LCMS M 1 432.

2 Amino 3 5 bromo 1H indol 3 yl propionic acid 0.020 g 0.071 mmol was added to a 5 ml microwave vial which contained 5 phenyl thiophen 2 boronic acid 0.016 g 0.078 mmol NaCO 0.015 g 0.142 mmol acetonitrile 1.5 ml water 1.5 ml and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium 3 mg 0.003 mmol . Microwave vial was capped and stirred at 150 C. for 5 min under microwave radiation. Reaction mixture was cooled filtered through a syringe filter and then separated by a reverse phase preparative HPLC using YMC Pack ODS 100 30 mm ID column MeOH HO TFA solvent system . The pure fractions were concentrated in vacuum. The product was then suspended in 5 ml of water frozen and lyophilized to give 5 mg of pure product 2 amino 3 5 5 phenyl thiophen 2 yl 1H indol 3 yl propionic acid. 1H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 3.21 3.26 m 2H 4.25 q 1H 7.15 7.35 m 8H 7.58 d 2H 7.82 d 1H .

A mixture of 1 ethynyl 4 phenoxy benzene 126 mg 0.65 mmol and S 3 4 azido phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 200 mg 0.65 mg in HO dioxane 5 1 was heated at 100 C. in a sealed tube for overnight. After completion of reaction 3N HCl 5 ml was added and the mixture was stirred for 2 hr at 50 C. Removal of solvent gave crude product which was dissolved in MeOH and purified by preparative HPLC to give 45 mg of desired product yield 29 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 3.2 m 1H 3.4 m 1H 4.3 m 1H 6.9 d 2H 7.0 d 2H 7.2 m 1H 7.3 d 2H 7.4 7.55 m 6H 8.0 s 1H .

6.52. Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 4 4 thiophene 2 carboxamido phenyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl phenyl propanoic acid and S 2 Amino 3 4 5 4 thiophene 2 carboxamido phenyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl phenyl propanoic acid

A mixture of thiophene 2 carboxylic acid 4 ethyl phenyl amide 117 mg 0.49 mmol and S 3 4 azido phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 150 mg 0.49 mg in 5 ml of HO dioxane 5 1 was heated at 100 C. in a sealed tube overnight. After completion of reaction 3N HCl 5 ml was added and the mixture was stirred for 2 hr at 50 C. Removal of solvent gave crude product which was dissolved in MeOH and purified by preparative HPLC. According to LCMS retention time and NMR two regio isomers were obtained total yield 70 mg 66 . The major product is S 2 amino 3 4 4 4 thiophene 2 carboxamido phenyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl phenyl propanoic acid. NMR H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 3.2 m 1H 3.4 m 1H 4.3 m 1H 7.15 m 1H 7.3 d 2H 7.6 m 4H 7.0 m 3H 7.95 d 1H 8.0 s 1H . The minor product is S 2 amino 3 4 5 4 thiophene 2 carboxamido phenyl 1H 1 2 3 triazol 1 yl phenyl propanoic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 3.2 m 1H 3.4 m 1H 4.35 m 1H 7.2 m 1H 7.3 d 2H 7.5 7.6 m 4H 7.75 m 3H 7.95 d 1H 8.05 s 1H .

2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 0.180 g 1.1 mmol trimethyl phenylethynyl stannane 0.264 g 1 mmol were dissolved in THF 20 ml and the mixture was stirred at 65 C. for 12 h. LCMS indicated the completion of reaction. Solvent was removed and the residue was directly used in the following step.

The crude intermediate 0.42 g L p borono phenylalanine 0.210 g 1 mmol sodium carbonate 0.210 g 2 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 25 mg 0.036 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of MeCN 3 ml and HO 3 ml in a 10 ml microwave vial. The vial was sealed and stirred in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 6 min. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. Residue was purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as solvent system to obtain S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 phenylethynyl pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 3.20 3.42 m 2H 4.31 m 1H 7.40 7.51 m 6H 7.62 d 2H 8.18 d 2H .

Additional compounds prepared using methods known in the art and or described herein are listed below 

Human TPH1 TPH2 tyrosine hydroxylase TH and phenylalanine hydroxylase PH were all generated using genes having the following accession numbers respectively X52836 AY098914 X05290 and U49897.

The full length coding sequence of human TPH1 was cloned into the bacterial expression vector pET24 Novagen Madison Wis. USA . A single colony of BL21 DE3 cells harboring the expression vector was inoculated into 50 ml of L broth LB kanamycin media and grown up at 37 C. overnight with shaking. Half of the culture 25 ml was then transferred into 3 L of media containing 1.5 yeast extract 2 Bacto Peptone 0.1 mM tryptophan 0.1 mM ferrous ammonium sulfate and 50 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.0 and grown to OD 6 at 37 C. with oxygen supplemented at 40 pH maintained at 7.0 and glucose added. Expression of TPH1 was induced with 15 D lactose over a period of 10 hours at 25 C. The cells were spun down and washed once with phosphate buffered saline PBS .

TPH1 was purified by affinity chromatography based on its binding to pterin. The cell pellet was resuspended in a lysis buffer 100 ml 20 g containing 50 mM Tris Cl pH 7.6 0.5 M NaCl 0.1 Tween 20 2 mM EDTA 5 mM DTT protease inhibitor mixture Roche Applied Science Indianapolis Ind. USA and 1 mM phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride PMSF and the cells were lyzed with a microfluidizer. The lysate was centrifuged and the supernatant was loaded onto a pterin coupled sepharose 4B column that was equilibrated with a buffer containing 50 mM Tris pH 8.0 2 M NaCl 0.1 Tween 20 0.5 mM EDTA and 2 mM DTT. The column was washed with 50 ml of this buffer and TPH1 was eluded with a buffer containing 30 mM NaHCO pH 10.5 0.5 M NaCl 0.1 Tween 20 0.5 mM EDTA 2 mM DTT and 10 glycerol. Eluted enzyme was immediately neutralized with 200 mM KHPO pH 7.0 0.5 M NaCl 20 mM DTT 0.5 mM EDTA and 10 glycerol and stored at 80 C.

Human tryptophan hydroxylase type II TPH2 tyrosine hydroxylase TH and phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH were expressed and purified essentially in the same way except the cells were supplemented with tyrosine for TH and phenylalanine for PAH during growth.

TPH1 and TPH2 activities were measured in a reaction mixture containing 50 mM 4 morpholinepropanesulfonic acid MOPS pH 7.0 60 M tryptophan 100 mM ammonium sulfate 100 M ferrous ammonium sulfate 0.5 mM tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine TCEP 0.3 mM 6 methyl tetrahydropterin 0.05 mg ml catalase and 0.9 mM DTT. The reactions were initiated by adding TPH1 to a final concentration of 7.5 nM. Initial velocity of the reactions was determined by following the change of fluorescence at 360 nm excitation wavelength 300 nm . TPH1 and TPH2 inhibition was determined by measuring their activities at various compound concentrations and the potency of a given compound was calculated using the equation 

Human TH and PAH activities were determined by measuring the amount of HO generated using L 3 4 H tyrosine and L 4 H phenylalanine respectively. The enzyme 100 nM was first incubated with its substrate at 0.1 mM for about 10 minutes and added to a reaction mixture containing 50 mM MOPS pH 7.2 100 mM ammonium sulfate 0.05 Tween 20 1.5 mM TCEP 100 M ferrous ammonium sulfate 0.1 mM tyrosine or phenylalanine 0.2 mM 6 methyl tetrahydropterin 0.05 mg ml of catalase and 2 mM DTT. The reactions were allowed to proceed for 10 15 minutes and stopped by the addition of 2 M HCl. The mixtures were then filtered through activated charcoal and the radioactivity in the filtrate was determined by scintillation counting. Activities of compounds on TH and PAH were determined using this assay and calculated in the same way as on TPH1 and TPH2.

Two types of cell lines were used for screening RBL2H3 is a rat mastocytoma cell line which contains TPH1 and makes 5 hydroxytrypotamine 5HT spontaneously BON is a human carcinoid cell line which contains TPH1 and makes 5 hydroxytryptophan 5HTP . The CBAs were performed in 96 well plate format. The mobile phase used in HPLC contained 97 of 100 mM sodium acetate pH 3.5 and 3 acetonitrile. A Waters C18 column 4.6 50 mm was used with Waters HPLC model 2795 . A multi channel fluorometer model 2475 was used to monitor the flow through by setting at 280 nm as the excitation wavelength and 360 nm as the emission wavelength.

RBL CBA Cells were grown in complete media containing 5 bovine serum for 3 4 hours to allow cells to attach to plate wells 7K cell well . Compounds were then added to each well in the concentration range of 0.016 M to 11.36 M. The controls were cells in complete media without any compound present. Cells were harvested after 3 days of incubation at 37 C. Cells were 95 confluent without compound present. Media were removed from plate and cells were lysed with equal volume of 0.1 N NaOH. A large portion of the cell lysate was treated by mixing with equal volume of 1M TCA and then filtered through glass fiber. The filtrates were loaded on reverse phase HPLC for analyzing 5HT concentrations. A small portion of the cell lysate was also taken to measure protein concentration of the cells that reflects the cytotoxicity of the compounds at the concentration used. The protein concentration was measured by using BCA method.

The average of 5HT level in cells without compound treated was used as the maximum value in the ICderivation according to the equation provided above. The minimum value of 5HT is either set at 0 or from cells that treated with the highest concentration of compound if a compound is not cytotoxic at that concentration.

BON CBA Cells were grown in equal volume of DMEM and F12K with 5 bovine serum for 3 4 hours 20K cell well and compound was added at a concentration range of 0.07 M to 50 M. The cells were incubated at 37 C. overnight. Fifty M of the culture supernatant was then taken for 5HTP measurement. The supernatant was mixed with equal volume of 1M TCA then filtered through glass fiber. The filtrate was loaded on reverse phase HPLC for 5HTP concentration measurement. The cell viability was measured by treating the remaining cells with Promega Celltiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay. The compound potency was then calculated in the same way as in the RBL CBA.

The in vivo effects of a potent TPH1 inhibitor of the invention were evaluated in several studies by determining the change of 5 HT levels in the intestines and brains of mice following oral administration of the compound.

The compound was formulated in different vehicles to provide either a suspension or solution. Generally 14 week old male C57 albino mice were dosed once daily by oral gavage at 5 ml kg for four consecutive days. Five hours after the last dose the animals were quickly sacrificed. Various regions of the intestinal tract and whole brain were taken and frozen immediately. 5 HT was extracted from the tissues and measured by HPLC. Blood samples were taken for exposure analysis.

The potent TPH1 inhibitor was found to reduce 5 HT levels in both the small and large intestine but not in the brain. In one study the compound was formulated in HO and administered to mice at four different dose levels 15 50 150 and 500 mg kg once daily by oral gavage. As shown in the compound caused significant reduction of 5 HT in the jejunum and ileum in a dose dependent fashion. In the colon statistically significant reduction of 5 HT was seen at the 50 150 and 500 mg kg day dose levels. No significant change of 5 HT levels was observed in the brain at any of the dose levels.

All publications e.g. patents and patent applications cited above are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

