---

title: Process for crystalline explosives containing halogenated wax binders
abstract: A process for manufacture of explosive formulations containing a halogenated wax binder, involving dilution of the halogenated wax in a non-aqueous lacquer, slurring the explosive in an aqueous solution and applying heat and vacuum to yield a granular explosive which provides complete coating to avoid hot spots and is quickly pressable at lower temperature and pressure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08216404&OS=08216404&RS=08216404
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08216404
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110125
---
This application is a divisional application of currently U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 401 061 filed Mar. 10 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 955 452 which application is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The invention described herein may be licensed manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for government purposes without the payment of any royalty.

The present invention relates to explosive formulations containing halogenated wax binder systems and process for production thereof the process involving dilution of the halogenated wax in a non aqueous lacquer slurring fine and very fine particle size crystalline explosive in an aqueous solution adding the lacquer distilling off the solvent vacuum filtering and drying to yield a granular explosive which provides complete coating to avoid hot spots and is easily pressable at lower temperature and pressure.

Newer munitions are designed to minimize any violent explosive response when subjected unintended stimuli during transportation storage or because of enemy action. It is also critical that such Insensitive Munitions IM not sacrifice necessary explosive efficiency of the conventional munitions they replace.

Denser explosives generally yield higher detonation velocities and pressures i.e. greater explosive efficiency. Particularly high efficiency explosives that are chemically stable and relatively safe to handle are aliphatic nitramines including cyclotetramethylenetetranitramine HMX and cyclotrimethylenetrinitramine RDX. HMX is an efficient explosive having a detonation velocity above 9 000 m sec. at a density of 1.9 RDX exhibits a detonation velocity of 8 400 m sec. at a density of 1.7 while TNT exhibits a detonation velocity of 6 940 m sec. at a density of 1.62 .

TNT has a melting point of 80 C. such that it can be cast or easily pressed into the desired shape. It contrast HMX has a melt point of 282 C. and RDX has a melt point of 203 C. such that these explosives would decompose if cast. Further it has long been known that crystalline organic detonating compounds such as RDX and HMX must be treated with an additive to impart to them the characteristics required for handling and processing. When untreated the discrete particles comprising these materials generally have poor flowing properties which tend to make the particles bridge deleteriously during their introduction into munitions. Furthermore due to the lack of cohesive forces among these discrete particles the plain or untreated RDX or HMX cannot be pressed into pellets or the like for example those used in shape charges of sufficient coherency to maintain their form when removed from the die or when subjected to the usual mechanical stresses incurred in handling.

To provide the necessary free flowing properties crystalline organic explosives are usually treated with a graining agent i.e. an additive imparting free flow which coats and lubricates the larger grains and agglomerates the finer crystals. Numerous graining agents are known including graphite wax gums shellacs polyvinyl alcohol and a variety of plastics and resins. In many instances these graining agents act also as binders which facilitate the forming of the crystalline explosive into a coherent mass. One particular pressed explosive charge is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 3 291 666 which discloses admixing a copolymer of vinylidene fluoride and hexafluoropropylene with the crystalline explosive to obtain a free flowing readily pressable composition. A second pressable explosive is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 547 526 which discloses a pressed plastic bonded explosive that is pressed under a pressure of 1000 bar 14 500 psi or higher.

As stated above explosive formulations may contain wax binders such as the combination of carnauba max and ozokerite wax disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 641 683. Such wax binder based formulations provide a matrix which can accept reactive metals to enhance the heat of reaction while being cost effective and easily loaded using high speed presses. Further such wax binders phlegmatize i.e. stabilize or desensitize the explosive formulation as the wax tends to fill in gaps between explosive grains lowering the probability of unintended initiation i.e. lowering the sensitivity. The extent of sensitivity reduction generally relates to the amount of wax included in the formulation. However addition of wax strongly reduces explosive performance again in proportion to the amount of wax added. Thus there is a tradeoff between increasing the amount of wax to obtain better insensitivity with reduced performance and decreasing the wax to gain higher power at the cost of becoming more sensitive.

In December 2006 at the Joint Army Navy and Air Force JANNAF 41CS129APS 23PSHS in San Diego. P. Samuels S. Singh and B. Fishburn disclosed use of halogenated wax binder systems in high power explosives. A developmental PAX 46 explosive was disclosed containing 91.5 bi modal RDX 8.5 chlorinated wax and oil i.e. a plasticizer. This RDX chlorinated wax based explosive was disclosed to exceed the IM properties of LX 14 containing 95.5 HMX and 4.5 plastic binder system. PAX 46 was said to yield greater explosive efficiency than Composition A5 a RDX stearic acid based explosive used in numerous munitions including guided multiple launch rocked systems GMLRS 40 mm M430A1 assorted submunitions small shaped charges and boosters. However the December 2006 disclosure failed to disclose anything regarding the manufacture of PAX 46 or similar halogenated wax binder explosives failed to disclosure anything specific about the binders system e.g. other than usage of wax and oil combination nothing was said about a particular solid liquid binder system failed to disclose anything about the particle size of the explosive material failed to mention anything about hotspots and with respect to flow properties only mentioning that PAX 46 was durable to help in pressing and had good flow properties.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 641 683 mentioned above discloses a melt process for the manufacture of wax based explosive compositions which results in a castable product. However this process does not yield pressable granules amiable to modern high speed pressing into shaped charges warhead explosives or shell propellants. Also the melt process of U.S. Pat. No. 6 641 683 subjects the composition to temperatures of from 84 C. to 820 C. which high temperatures can cause undesirable softening agglomeration and potential degradation of the subject halogenated wax binder explosive all of which will negatively effect its flow properties if it were desired to attempt to press the resulting product into finished munitions.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 985 595 discloses a heat resistant symtriaminotrinitrobenzene TATB explosive composition that contains a halogenated plastic i.e. fully saturated copolymer of chlorotrifluoroethylene and vinylidene fluoride binder which is manufactured by a known slurry process resulting in explosive beads which beads form a moldable powder. This slurry process involves mixing powdered explosive and water in a kettle equipped with a condenser and agitator. A lacquer composed of the halogenated plastic is dissolved in a suitable solvent and added to the slurry. The solvent is removed by distillation such as by use of a steam sparger causing the plastic phase to participate out on the explosive. The resulting plastic explosive agglomerates into beads as the stirring and solvent removal continues. The water is removed from the beads by filtration and drying which drying is disclosed to be in a forced draft oven at 100 C. Unfortunately this process subjecting the composition repeatedly to elevated temperatures such as with a steam sparger giving localized temperatures well over 100 C. and subsequent 100 C. drying can cause undesired softening and agglomeration of the subject halogenated wax binder explosive and as stated above negatively impact its flow properties. Further the U.S. Pat. No. 3 985 595 discloses a preference to reduce agitation during the solvent removal step an act which is contraindicated with halogenated wax binder explosives due to a phase separation unique to such systems as discussed below.

There is a need in the art for a halogenated wax binder explosive and means for manufacture thereof the explosive having good flow properties and good pressability required for modern munition high speed manufacturing as well as uniform coating to avoid hot spots.

Therefore it is an object of the present invention to propose explosive compositions containing halogenated waxes and a process for manufacture thereof which compositions are granular free flowing readily pressable and uniform to avoid any uncoated explosive which may cause unwanted hot spots. The process involves the following steps 

To obtain the desired moldable wax coated crystalline explosive powder it is essential that a halogenated solid wax liquid oil binder system be used and that about a 50 50 mixture of course and fine crystalline explosive be used. Specifically it is preferable to use a Class III 360 micron fine RDX and a Fluid Energy Milled FEM 4 micron very fine RDX powder. Further to ensure the necessary dispersion of the lacquer within the wetted crystalline explosive the lacquer may be introduced via a multiport funnel having 3 ports located 120 degrees apart the ports at abut 90 degrees to the vertical so that three streams are introduced into the wetted crystalline explosive at widely separated positions.

The resulting moldable wax coated crystalline explosive powder the molding powder can be molded with a dwell times as short as about two minutes by heating the molding powder and die to about 65 C. and at low pressure pressing at about 26 500 ft. lbs.

The process or method as described herein allows for the production of insensitive thermally stable explosive charges containing high density chlorinated and fluorinated wax binders and common nitramines crystalline explosives such as RDX and HMX. The method results in a moldable powder of chlorowax or halowax coated RDX or HMX or other crystalline explosive material which are easily pressable into high quality charges without hot spots.

The halogenated binders preferred in the present process are cheap and commercially available. Further it has been found that using a solid liquid combination of chlorowax and oil and about a 50 50 mix of fine and very fine particle crystalline explosive results in an easily pressible high quality explosive at nearly maximum density and without hot spots i.e. an explosive greater than 98 theoretical maximum density with very little variation . The pressiblity is shown by the fact that the resulting crystalline explosive can be pressed at low temperature and relatively low pressure compared to a conventional non chlorowax explosive manufactured by conventional means.

Preferred solid liquid halogenated binder systems include a combination of powdered Chlorez 700 SS a chlorinated paraffin resin and a liquid Paroil 170T a low viscosity short chain chlorinated paraffin plasticizer available from Dover Chemical Corporation Dover Ohio 44622 0040. It has been discovered that this preferred Chlorez 700 SS Paroil 170T binder system when formulated into the required lacquer to separate with a white solid suspension settling to the bottom of the lacquer. Therefore it is essential that after the lacquer is introduced into the wetting about a 50 50 mixture of fine and very fine crystalline explosive the resulting slurry be agitated at a high 500 to 700 rpm preferably 650 rpm for about 20 to 40 minutes preferably about 30 minutes. An alternative halogenated binder system includes a combination of powdered Halocarbon 2300 wax and a liquid Halocarbon 27 oil a medium molecular weight polymer of chlorotrifluoroethylene available from Halocarbon Corporation River Edge N.J. 07661.

Suitable solvents for preparing a lacquer containing a halogenated wax binder include ethanol iospropanol a mixture of an alcohol such as isopropanol n butanol n pentanol and the like and an ester such as ethyl acetate butyl acetate and the like or a ketone such as methyl ethyl ketone MEK acetone methyl isobutyl ketone MIBK and the like.

A preferred process to yield the granular free flowing readily pressable and uniform crystalline explosive containing a chlorinated wax is comprised of the following steps 

As stated above the finished halogenated wax coated crystalline explosive molding powder and die to be used in pressing are heated to 65.6 C. and pressed performed at low pressure 26 500 ft. lbs. to produce pellets or other desired form. Pressing requires only one dwell of two minutes to achieve this quality of charge. As shown in Table I below the pressing conditions for molding an equivalent sample of PAX 46 a halogenated wax coated crystalline explosive manufactured in accord with the subject inventive process and LX 14 a moldable but conventional crystalline explosive molding powder. The PAX 46 has a formulation of 45.5 by weight Class III RDX 45.5 by weight FEM 4.8 micron RDX 6.3 by weight Chlorez 700 SS Wax and 2.7 by weight Paroil 170T. In contrast the LX 14 is a polymer bonded crystalline HMX explosive containing about 95 various classes of HMX and 5 Estane polymer. The LX 14 is manufactured by a conventional process where the polymer is dissolved in a solvent and mixed with the crystalline explosive. The solvent is then drawn off and a pressable granular product consisting of the explosive in the polymer binder is left.

As shown in Table I the pressing of PAX 46 manufactured in accordance of the subject inventive process only requires about 66 of the pressure about 71 of the temperature and only 50 of the time versus that required for the conventional LX 14 crystalline explosive. Further the PAX 46 produced has a significantly higher TMD percentage which translates into greater relative explosive force.

