---

title: Dynamic data management system and method for collecting data from disperse sources in real-time
abstract: A dynamic system and a method for locating and obtaining patient information in real-time is provided. The system generally comprises an order in the form of a query; a document management and storage system (DMSS); at least one tool that is capable of sending the query to a server in order to retrieve available information; a communication channel; and a data collection and conversion system (DCCS). The DMSS includes both an application processor and a tool processor designed to manage and control the storage of electronic documents through the use of an application program that includes functionality for selecting the tool and authenticating the order.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08515989&OS=08515989&RS=08515989
owner: 
number: 08515989
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20110211
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 303 760 filed on Feb. 12 2010 entitled DYNAMIC DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR COLLECTING DATA FROM DISPERSE SOURCES IN REAL TIME the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to the field of data collection and more specifically to a novel dynamic system and method for collecting data from disperse data sources using data collection tools that function through an automated interface.

Specific information relevant to the health of a patient may be stored in files records and other data sources located in many different medical facilities such as physician offices hospitals skilled nursing facilities medical laboratories free standing radiology clinics and other health care providers. Patient information is often required by organizations that are authorized to receive such information such as medical service provider plans governmental agencies including Medicare and Medicaid and other authorized organizations. The specific information may be found in many locations on various media in numerous formats and amid a considerable amount of non relevant data. For example data collection may take the form of extracting data from electronic or paper files and records or collecting data visually by inspection during an on site audit of a medical facility. Selecting collecting abstracting and organizing the relevant data into a format that is readily analyzed and managed by the resources of a medical service provider plan or other authorized organization is a complex and time consuming task. Thus authorized organizations have a need for new and efficient systems and methods for selecting collecting abstracting organizing and managing specific medical information from the files of their participating medical and healthcare service providers.

In satisfying the above need as well as overcoming the enumerated drawbacks and other limitations of the related art the present disclosure provides a dynamic system for locating and obtaining patient information in real time. The system generally comprises an order in the form of a query a document management and storage system DMSS at least one tool that is capable of sending the query to a server in order to retrieve available information a communication channel and a data collection and conversion system DCCS . The query requests information regarding a specific patient or group of patients. The information resides as source information which includes both a data collection routine and a tool collection routine. The DMSS includes both an application processor and a tool processor designed to manage and control the storage of electronic documents through the use of an application program. The application program includes functionality that can select a tool and authenticate the order. The communication channel allows communication between the application processor and the tool processor while the DCCS links the tool with both the DMSS and the source information. The DMSS may when desirable reside at a remote site from the source information.

The order which is in the form of executable code machine readable code script or pseudo code may be used to identify a list of the possible locations in which the source information resides. The query provides individual questions or a group of questions to be answered a description of the type of information being sought and or the identification of a desirable response type. The response type may be a yes no answer a predetermined numeric value range or an alpha text.

The DMSS can reside on a server that is different than the server on which the source information is located. This second server is in communication with the first server through the communication channel. The software run by the application processor as part of the DMSS may be for example ProData EHMDS or Almaga . The tool may be a collection of script when desirable. The tool may also be a collection of tools that represent a compilation of all the different variations in which the query may be represented. It is the authentication functionality that enables predetermined data collection assignments to be correlated with the request or order.

The DCCS may reside on another separate server. This third server may be in communication with the other first and second servers via the communication channel. The DCCS links the tool processor and source information through the use of a generic interface. The DCCS is compatible with industry standard formats including but not limited to continuity care documents CCD continuity of care records CCR and HL7 messaging. When desirable the DCCS may be D3 .

The tool collection routine of the source information includes at least one data tool linked to a data set that contains parameters information or data which can assist the tool collection routine in using the data tool. The tool processor includes a data store in which data records and data tools are stored and a tool parsing engine that is used to execute instructions that form the code or script of the data tools. The communication channel may be a dedicated facility a wide area network WAN a virtual private network VPN a local area network or the internet.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a health care directive registry is provided that includes more than one organization as a member with each member maintaining a server that incorporates source information and the dynamic system described herein. The dynamic system is used to locate and obtain patient information in real time from the source information maintained by the members of the registry. The members of the registry may include a hospital a medical provider an insurance agency a medical organization a clinic or the Department of Health.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a health information exchange HIE is provided that comprises a disperse network of more than one participant as a member with each member maintaining at least one server that includes source information and the dynamic system described herein. The dynamic system is used to locate and obtain patient information in real time from the source information maintained by the members of the HIE. The participants in the HIE may include health care directive registries healthcare payers laboratories hospitals designated web portals diagnostic imaging facilities medication intermediaries public health agencies ambulatory EHRs or PHRs health record banks.

According to yet another aspect of the present disclosure a method for collecting data from source information is provided. The method generally comprises an interface application logging onto an application program that resides on an application processor or tool processor in response to a query the application program authenticating the interface application the interface application requesting appropriate tools for a specific data collection assignment the application program retrieving the assignment for the interface application the application program building a tool set with script for each tool that will enable the interface application to collect the data from the source information the tool set being sent to the tool processor the tool processor executing the script for each tool necessary to collect the data from the source information the interface application collecting the desired data and the tool processor uploading information to a data receiver and collecting the data in a database. In this method the data collection is performed in real time.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. It should be understood that the description and specific examples are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

The following description is merely exemplary in nature and is in no way intended to limit the present disclosure or its application or uses. It should be understood that throughout the description and drawings corresponding reference numerals indicate like or corresponding parts and features.

The current disclosure generally provides a dynamic system that provides a secure real time method of locating and obtaining patient information stored as part of a health care directive registry or over a more disperse network such as a health information exchange HIE . This dynamic system provides the ability to have the application residing at a remote site that can query and retrieve information in response to the query or multiple queries from multiple databases. The type of information that is sought may include but not be limited to medical and legal documents submitted by individuals or on behalf of individuals and stored in electronic format in one or more databases located at or managed by hospitals medical providers insurance agencies medical organizations clinics and the Department of Health among others. Examples of such documents include Health Care Power of Attorney Advance Directive Declaration of Anatomical Gift and other medical documents.

As shown in the system comprises a user or requester that submits a request or an order for information regarding a specific individual or group of individuals in a health care directive registry . The requestor may be a citizen associated with the advanced directive registry or an organization associated with the registry such as an authorized hospital e.g. admitting hospital or emergency room etc. medical providers medical organizations insurance agencies clinics or the Department of Health among others. The information being sought may reside as source information located on a server managed or maintained by the requestor and or as source information located on a server managed and maintained by another organization within the registry. Thus at times the requestor may be both the source of the request and the organization within the registry that has the information being sought and collected in response to the request .

The request represents executable code machine readable code script or pseudo code associated with a provider and or a specific query regarding an individual or group of individuals. The request may utilize language and provide queries used to identify a list of all possible database locations in which the information being sought may reside. Examples of such language and queries include but are not limited to those known as a where clause or if clause as used in a variety of different software such as Microsoft Access . Part of the code associated with the request may include a method that identifies the requestor provides individual questions or group of questions to be answered describes the type of information being sought and or identifies a desirable response type such as a yes no answer a predetermine numeric value range or an alpha text.

The server includes source information that is comprised of various tables and fields. These tables and fields include information regarding various individuals and groups of individuals. Examples of information that may be included in the source information include but are not limited to personal health records and the medical or legal documents as described above. This information may reside in various formats or media types such as in a Microsoft Excel worksheet or as a scanned document in which the text of the document has been rendered electronically recognizable through any means known to one skilled in the art such as through the use of optical character recognition OCR software. These tables and fields may include the information being sought by the request or order submitted by the requestor .

The server is linked to a document management and storage system DMSS . The DMSS includes one or more other servers that are in communication with server as well as in communication with an application processor and or a tool processor . The DMSS includes software designed to manage and control the storage of electronic documents through the application processor . An example of such software is commercially available as ProData Unival Inc. Ann Arbor Mich. . If desirable other software such as that conventionally used as part of an electronic health data management system EHDMS or Microsoft Almaga could be utilized in place of ProData . The application processor has a tool selector functionality for selecting tools appropriate for a given data collection assignment and an authentication functionality to identify particular requestors who input a query through the tool processor . A tool represents a collection of script or information necessary to send out a query to locate and request data from the source information. A compilation of the all the different variations in which a query or question may be represented defines a collection of tools or a tool set.

The authentication functionality enables particular predetermined data collection assignments to be correlated with the correct request or order . The authentication function acts a security layer by maintaining a signature key for each of the various applications in the system . This function identifies and authorizes particular queries attempting to interface with the tool processor thereby enabling and assigning specific data collection requests to the system .

The server is also linked to an advanced data collection and conversion system DCCS such as that commercially available as D3 Unival Inc. Ann Arbor Mich. . The DCCS includes one or more other servers that are in communication with server and the DMMS . The DCCS can communicate with handheld devices or other types of mobile devices to quickly and accurately extract data from paper or electronic medical records data warehouses and other data streams or stores. The DCCS also provides links between the tool processor and the DMMS through a communication system and channel as well as between the tool processor and source information on the server through a generic interface .

The DCCS is preferably a multiple application system such that it can when desirable simultaneously produce comprehensive customized web based reports for every data collection request . The DCCS can collect the data at the point of care from remote locations or from electronic documents directly uploaded into the DCCS . The DCCS preferably works with industry standard formats such as continuity of care documents CCD continuity of care records CCR or HL7 Messaging among others to allow for interoperability with any standard electronic health record system.

A further description of the DMSS and DCCS included as part of system in the current disclosure is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 7 519 622 issued to R. Fernandez on Apr. 14 2009 and in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 231 176 filed on Aug. 29 2008 entitled System and Method for Collecting Data from Data Sources and Using Data Collection Tools the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The application processor may reside on the same server as source information or be physically separated from the information and reside on a separate server . The source information includes both a data collection and a tool collection routine. The tool collection routine includes at least one data tool but could contain a multiple different data tools A B etc. for use in collecting data. Each data tool is linked or associated with a data set . Each data set contains parameters information and data that assists in the execution or use of the associated or linked data tool .

The communication system includes both a tool transmitter for transmitting the data tools and data sets to the tool processor and a data receiver for receiving data records that are based on information contained in the source files or database identified as a result of the request or order . The data records are stored in the data collection routine residing on the server as part of the DMSS . The communication system allows the application processor to communicate through a communication channel with the tool processor and the tool processor to communicate with remote servers

The tool processor is an application program residing in the DCCS that sends the query to where the data is stored. The tool processor may optionally include a data store in which the data records and data tools can be stored. In addition the tool processor may also optionally include a tool parsing engine that is used to parse and execute instructions that form the code or script of the data tools . When desirable a query along with the source database engine may be capable of functioning as the tool parsing engine without the need to store the data records in a data store.

The tool processor further comprises a local communication system used to establish communication between an electronic interface application and the application processor through the communication channel . The communication system determines how to interface with any remote server based on the format and type of information stored as source information on that server . The communication channel and any other links established between the various components of the system may be a dedicated facility a Wide Area Network WAN a Virtual Private Network VPN a local area network the internet or any other number of other land based terrestrial based or wireless communication facilities networks or resources.

The tool processor is utilized by an electronic interface application such as D3 Remote to access to the source information . The tool processor may be selected as one from the group of a workstation laptop computer desktop computer server and any other platform that contains processing units capable of executing the data tool to create data records .

Referring now to a method according to the teachings of the present disclosure for collecting data from the source information begins with a step where the interface application logs onto an application program or software located on the application processor or tool processor in response to an order query. The application program includes the appropriate functionality to authenticate the identity of the interface application . The application program may also reside on the tool processor or as part of the application processor on a remote server . The application program may also include a combination of both of these configurations with some functions of the application program residing locally on the tool processor on one server and some functions of the application program residing remotely on another server .

The application program authenticates the interface application in step allowing the interface application in step to request the appropriate tools for a particular data collection assignment or query. In step the application program retrieves the assignment for the interface application and begins in step to build a tool set that enables the interface application to collect the information or data of interest as requested in the order submitted.

The interface application is a software program running on the tool processor that acts as an interface between the tool processor and the source information . The interface application may incorporate expert systems artificial intelligence or other embedded intelligence programs in any software language such as 4GL as well as utilize interface formats or protocols including but not limited to health level seven HL7 open database connectivity ODBC and extensible markup language XML that are suitable for interacting with source information . The interface application may reside on the same machine or server as the data tool selector function and the authentication function or it may reside on another machine server . Some functions can reside remotely or distributed across multiple servers e.g. a distributed architecture. The interface application searches through the files stored as source information to extract data in accordance with directions from the tool set and data set . The interface application then transmits a data packet when a particular detail specified by the data set and tool data requests information related to a particular code. Thus the interaction application supplies the search recognition and extraction skills that are necessary to generate the data records during real time extraction of the data.

In step the tool set is transmitted by the tool transmitter within communication system from the tool collection within the server to the tool processor via the communication channel . The tool set is stored in the tool store within the data store residing on the tool processor . The tools are executed within the tool processor in step . This enables the interface application to create data records in step from the relevant data collected from the source information . The data records may be stored when desirable within the data store of tool processor . The record store and the tool store which reside on tool processor may be contained with the same or different devices.

In step the data record or records can be directly transmitted from the tool processor through its communication system via the communication channel to the data receiver to a remote communication system that provides a communication interface for the server . The data records are stored in the data collection that resides on the server .

In step the tool set is transmitted by the tool transmitter within communication system from the tool collection within the server to the tool processor via the communication channel . The tool set is stored in the tool store within the data store residing on the tool processor . The tools are executed within the tool processor in step . This enables the interface application to create data records in step from the relevant data collected from the source information . The data records may be stored when desirable within the data store of tool processor . The record store and the tool store which reside on tool processor may be contained with the same or different devices.

In step the data record or records can be directly transmitted from the tool processor through its communication system via the communication channel to the data receiver to a remote communication system that provides a communication interface for the server . The data records are stored in the data collection that resides on the server .

The process of building the tool set for executing the data collection assignment as described in step begins with the application program identifying a tool that is needed to proceed in finding the answer to the request . The identity of the requestor may be used to determine the data collection assignment and thus serve as the basis for selecting the component tools that will comprise a tool set although other criteria such as date time location and or other relevant factors may also be used by the application program in determining the tools that will comprise the tool set to compete any particular request . The application program through the tool selector function fetches the tool script and the data set that is linked or associated with the identified tool script. The application program determines when all of the tools and linked or associated data sets required to compete the assignment have been selected. Once all of the tools and data sets have been accumulated the tool set is transmitted via the communication channel to the communication system in the tool processor as described above.

The interface application program running on the tool processor links the tool processor to a generic interface that is in communication with the sources information . This interface application through the generic interface searches through the source information stored on a server to extract data in accordance with directions in the tool set and data set. For example the tools set may contain instructions to collect a patient s birth date the date of an office visit or particular codes that indicate diagnoses or events such as doctor office or hospital visits. The interface application may reside on the same machine or server as the tool selector function the authentication function and or the information or on a separate machine that is interconnected with the system .

The generic interface is a platform such as Microsoft Dynamics CRM which may be used as a means for the requestor to view and interact with the system . It may include any number of interface types such as a web interface communicating through an application programming interface API to enable the platform.

The interface application may logon to the application program in response to polling that occurs at predetermined intervals established during initialization of the interface application . The interface application can be configured such that some functions reside locally on the tool processor and some functions reside remotely on a server . According to another aspect of the present disclosure the server could also poll to see if any DCCS are active and available to respond.

The interface application program may also be part of the larger data collection and conversion system DCCS . The DCCS can be configured to reside centrally with the tool processor . The DCCS can also be a distributed architecture system with some functions residing with the tool processor and some functions residing remotely on another server . Alternatively the interface application can be configured to monitor requests through the one or more data input channels that exist between the requester and the server in order to extract data in real time and deliver information in smaller data packets. The interface application transmits a data packet when a particular detail specified by the data set and data tools is recognized on the data input channel. The data tool and data set may request information related to a particular code e.g. a certain lab test has been ordered by a doctor. The interface application can be configured to continuously monitor for this code and extract in real time the fact that this test has been ordered at the same time that a doctor s assistant inputs this data into the computer resident at the doctor s office.

Referring now to system may be further extended to form a health information exchange HIE by incorporating the ability to interact with source information that reside on remote servers . Although this information and servers may be part of another HIE or a health care directive registry i.e. that is external to the health care directive registry to which the requestor belongs. Examples of registries that could be interconnected by the HIE include AHCD registry organ donor registry disease registry immunization registry e prescribing and another regional or state HIE among others.

One skilled in the art will understand that an HIE may also include participants that may not be part of a health care directive registry such as healthcare payers various laboratories hospitals designated web portals diagnostic imaging facilities medication intermediaries public health agencies ambulatory EHRs and other PHRs health record banks among others. The HIE may have any known technical architecture used to facilitate the sharing of documents within the HIE including but not limited to a centralized architecture having a central repository data warehouse or other database a federated architecture having interconnected independent databases a health record bank which allows patients to be more actively involved in the collection storage and distribution of their medical records and a hybrid architecture being a combination of other architecture types. A more complete description of an HIE is provided in a report prepared by the University of Massachusetts Medical School Center for Health Policy and Research CHPR in collaboration with the National Opinion Research Center NORC and the National Governors Association Center for Best Practices that was presented to the State Alliance for e Health entitled Public Governance Models for a Sustainable Health Information Exchange Industry such report being made publicly available in February 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The HIE allows for any desirable number of health care directive registries and other participants in the HIE to be in communication with one another through a distributed data network linked through the DMSS and DCCS of system . Preferably an interface program would act as an interface between the DMMS and the various servers over the distributed data network . Examples of an interface program include but are not limited to ProData Unival Inc. and Biztalk Microsoft Corp. among others. In this system the coded data traveling to and from remote sites would be encrypted requiring a signature key that can be authenticated by the authentication function in the DMSS in the HIE .

The foregoing description of various embodiments of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise embodiments disclosed. Numerous modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments discussed were chosen and described to provide the best illustration of the principles of the present disclosure and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the disclosure in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the present disclosure as determined by the appended claims when interpreted in accordance with the breadth to which they are fairly legally and equitably entitled.

