---

title: Identification of user segments based on video viewership activity and analysis
abstract: The techniques disclosed herein facilitate online audience targeting based on brand and product interest/enthusiasm as determined by a measurement metric that is a function of one of more (and preferably all) of the following: recency data, frequency data, intensity data, consumption data, site data, meta data related to given videos, data, and other demographic data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09148706&OS=09148706&RS=09148706
owner: Visible Measures Corp.
number: 09148706
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110110
---
The present invention relates generally to Internet video audience behavior measurement consumption tracking and reporting.

Many destination web sites and aggregators offer web based services that host videos for content publishers and that allow audiences to directly consume those video clips either on their websites or via other sites blogs or social networks to which their content is linked and or embedded. To be successful it is desirable for site owners to understand their audience and their consumption habits so that a site s appeal and stickiness to end users and others such as potential advertisers can be tracked managed and optimized. Additionally video and rich media formats are being used more and more for interactive advertising campaigns. Creatives that are provided in such formats need to be measured for audience behavior as well to ascertain the effectiveness of such campaigns.

Behavioral targeting has long held the promise of improving the delivery of suitable advertising to a specific consumer. Traditional methods of behavioral targeting online generally involve tracking which websites and which web pages a web user visits and then utilizing this information to infer things about the user such as the user s level of interest in buying a car the user s interest in given information and the like.

This disclosure relates to behavioral targeting based on a deep analytics into user behavior around video viewing patterns combined with an approach to categorizing and organizing videos into relevant segments related to brands products activities lifestyles or otherwise. The technique enables targeting of users based on their video viewing patterns and the content and subject matter of the videos they watch.

Preferably the technique leverages learning user targeting and scoring algorithms that combine various inputs such as the number of videos consumed how recently these videos were consumed the subject matter of the videos the intensity and engagement patterns of the interaction that the user had with the videos as well as relevant metadata around the videos including without limitation the channels on which the videos were shown the environment of the user platform web mobile or otherwise on which the videos were watched and the users themselves if no permission then no personally identifiable information used with permission user profile information then is leveraged to improve targeting .

In this manner a user can be identified as a target user of interest and be served an advertisement in conjunction with watching videos on one or more sites or as he or she visits other sites distinct from those where videos were watched.

The techniques disclosed herein facilitate online audience targeting based on the enthusiasm they exhibit for a particular brand product activity interest or other criteria. Preferably enthusiasm is determined by one or more algorithms that are a function of one of more and preferably all of the following recency data frequency data consumption data intensity data site data content data meta data related to the videos and related content and other demographic data.

The techniques disclosed herein provide a novel technique to segment and target an audience brand interest product enthusiasm based on video viewing behavior across video sites and the like in a privacy compliant manner.

The foregoing has outlined some of the more pertinent features of the invention. These features should be construed to be merely illustrative. Many other beneficial results can be attained by applying the disclosed invention in a different manner or by modifying the invention as will be described.

Marketers are always searching for better and more effective ways of reaching their target audience. It would be desirable to provide a new type of targeting that can enable the identification of users who may but need not be enthusiasts of a particular brand in market buyers for a particular product or practitioners of a particular activity or other use case where audiences exhibiting a particular level of enthusiasm or interest is being targeted . Preferably the identification of such enthusiasts is carried out by tracking and analyzing video viewing habits as will be described.

 Enthusiast marketing for example can provide significant benefits. As an example if an advertising ad targeting system could identify users who were very interested in a certain product or brand e.g. a user who is very interested in a specific Lexus automobile that information might be leveraged in many useful ways. Thus e.g. the manufacturer itself Lexus could demonstrate gratitude and offer some sort of loyalty incentive. A competitor e.g. Audi might like to be considered as an alternative option for later purchase and could thus provide some comparative advertisement. Lastly if an entity e.g. a specific dealership is interested in converting that user to become a customer it could employ conquest marketing or other such techniques in an effort to convert the interest to a real purchase. All of these options and many more could be available to marketers and the agencies that serve them if they had the ability to more granularly and accurate identify user interest segments enthusiasm and behavior. The approach for leveraging video viewing data that is now described enables this type of improved targeting.

As seen in an audience tracking system as described herein provides the high level functions including audience behavior tracking and category classification with the result being an audience profile database . The database stores data in the form of a unique algorithm calculation preferably based on many inputs referred to herein as a VScore. This designation is provided solely for convenience of explanation and not by way of limitation. In general a VScore can be thought of as a measure of how strongly a user is interested in a particular thing whether it is a brand a product an activity or otherwise. One possible use case of this VScore data would be as follows Ad server s access the audience tracking system through an audience filter to obtain an audience profile based on a VScore which profile is then used to inform the ad server as to which ad or ads should be delivered to the ad network or publisher that will display the ad or cause the ad to be displayed to the user.

As seen in a VScore preferably is influenced by a number of factors including without limitation recency data frequency data engagement data content metadata site data and other demographic data e.g. geography or other metadata . It is not required that data from each factor is included to generate the VScore but in a preferred embodiment this is the case. Generally recency data is a measure of how active the user has been based on his or her recent video viewing behavior over given time periods e.g. 1 2 30 60 90 120 and 180 days . The frequency data measures a number of video clips viewed within a given category e.g. manufacturer s brand model make interest lifestyle attribute and the like . The engagement data measures intensity such as how long the user spent viewing clips within a given category brand loyalty e.g. established through referral behavior what actions the user took within a session and the like. The geography and other metadata measures the location of the target audience the user s platform or other local environment the channels on which the videos have been consumed and other demographic data and metadata e.g. title content type if available.

As a skilled artisan will appreciate analysis and categorization of the content advertising viewed is critical to understanding the interests and intent of the users. Ideally a targeting system such as this should take into account videos that are user generated professionally generated or otherwise advertisements editorial content news or otherwise original versions of content copies of the originals or derivatives remixes mash ups user reviews fan submitted videos and the like. Essentially if all such videos are tagged and categorized appropriately and all the viewing behavior against these videos is similarly organizing and analyzed the resultant data can provide insights into the interests intent and characteristics of the viewing audience. This is the goal of the subject matter disclosed herein.

One of the important implications of this type of targeting system is that essentially all video on the web can have value. Currently a significant percent of web video clips are user generated UGC and as such are not generally easily monetizable. These videos however often contain by their nature tremendous information about the passions and interests of their creators viewers and distributors. These videos as well as others together with related content tweets blog posts etc. all can provide the inventive system relevant data to be used for algorithmic learning about audience enthusiasm.

The advertising server ad server on line advertising network ad network and conversion tracking systems referenced in are well known in the prior art. Familiarity with such technologies systems and business models are assumed in this disclosure.

To truly gather behavioral data at scale preferably the system monitors the viewing behavior of large numbers e.g. millions of users across hundreds or thousands of video properties for millions of videos and billions of events and data points. With all this data for this many users it is desirable to develop a set of algorithms that can help categorize the video content viewed and the users doing the viewing. This is the purpose of the VScore calculation algorithm which factors in many data points to determine how much a user is interested in a particular thing whether it is a brand a product activity or otherwise.

This widespread measurement of users and content provides highly relevant data. As mentioned previously preferably the VScore combines such items as an understanding of the content the user the environment viewing patterns over time as well as the channels across which the content is viewed the algorithm then looks at the intersections of such various data.

Many different types of audience analysis tools may be used in accordance with this invention to analyze behaviors at a user dimension. An audience overlap analysis identifies what audiences from other sites come to a particular site e.g. People who watch on Sitealso watch on Site. As seen in a first aspect of an audience overlap analysis is to identify unduplicated uniques. In particular given a site or a domain or sub domain etc. or a collection of sites the system obtains a list of users who have visited the site or sites. A baseline set may also be used. As indicated in the table of the system then compares user lists to determine the total uniques and the uniques per list. Another aspect of audience overlap may involve an investigation of cross site overlap based on the premise that viewers may be more likely to convert if they view videos on specific pairs of sites. This type of audience overlap analysis evaluates which site pairs drive the highest conversion rates. To that end an analysis involves creating an n n matrix of all sites mapped against one another. Each cell in the matrix then represents the overlapping audience of a first Site and a second Site. Then analyze common metrics for pairs of sites overlapping audience behavior with respect to one or more of viewers views engagements viewing time percentage completion conversions and the like. The goal of the technique is to determine what packages of sites address similar audiences. An example matrix is shown in .

Another technique for audience analysis utilizes so called Content Affinities which determine what sites have audiences that have strong affinity to a given site. One way of describing this concept is that Affinity is the increased likelihood of viewing on Sitegiven went to Site. Content Affinities as the name implies are causal relationships between content types such as the following illustrative example People who like content of type X also like content of type Y. The VScore algorithm can make use of such data in the following non limiting manner. Assume by way of example that the following affinity assertions data is available to the system 

 Probability of viewing on Sitegiven viewed on Siteis p S S p S S p S which is also equal to p S p S S p S 

Based on these assertions an affinity matrix is then developed as shown in . For a given site the affinity matrix is used to develop a pareto graph of its row. 

Another form of audience analysis is audience segmentation which groups visitors into monetizable buckets based on their activities e.g. to attempt to identify high versus low intensity users. This determination may be made based on what patterns each exhibit. Thus for example a set of usage intensity segmentations of a viewer across many videos and channels may be generated. This information can then be viewed in many different ways such as without limitation relevant videos viewed per user sites on which relevant videos are viewed sessions per user and videos viewed per session . Using this approach a given user may be characterized as low passer by medium regular or high enthusiast . Audience segmentation may be investigated on any meta data attribute per account per content type etc. by identifying behaviors for viewers in each identified segment or bucket . The usage intensity segmentation is not meant to be limiting as other techniques such as content affinity segmentation may be used as well.

This approach provides deep analytics into user behavior around video viewing patterns . These analytics are then combined with an approach to categorize and organize videos into relevant segments related to brands products activities lifestyles or otherwise. The resulting metric is a VScore which is then adapted into a profile that is used to facilitate targeting of users based on their video viewing patterns and the content and subject matter of the videos they watch.

The VScore algorithm combines various inputs such as the number of videos consumed how recently these videos were consumed the subject matter of the videos the intensity and engagement patterns of the interaction that the user had with the videos as well as relevant metadata around the videos including without limitation the channels on which the videos were shown the environment of the user platform web mobile or otherwise on which the videos were watched and the users themselves with or without PII depending on permission . In this manner a user can be identified as a target user of interest and be served an advertisement in conjunction with watching videos on one or more sites or as he or she visits other sites distinct from those where videos were watched.

A service provider or system architecture may be used to implement the audience tracking system. illustrates a representative service provider or system architecture which in one embodiment is implemented in or across one or more data centers. A data center typically has connectivity to the Internet. The system provides a preferably web based hosted solution through which service customers e.g. advertisers content publishers publishing networks site owners video owners and the like view Internet video and rich media end user experience analytics in an online manner. Participants may interact with the platform as a hosted service. In an alternative embodiment the system may be implemented over a private network or as a product as opposed to a hosted or managed service .

A user of the service e.g. an advertiser content publisher publishing network site owner or the like has an Internet accessible machine such as a workstation or notebook computer. Typically the user accesses the service provider architecture by opening a web browser on the machine to a URL associated with a service provider domain or sub domain. The user then authenticates to the managed service in the usual manner e.g. by entry of a username and password. The connection between the machine and the service provider infrastructure may be encrypted or otherwise secure e.g. via SSL or the like. Although connectivity via the publicly routed Internet is typical the user may connect to the service provider infrastructure over any local area wide area wireless wired private or other dedicated network. As seen in the service provider architecture comprises an IP switch a set of one or more web server machines a set of one more application server machines a database management system and a set of one or more administration server machines . A representative web server machine comprises commodity hardware e.g. Intel based an operating system such as Linux and a web server such as Apache 2.x. A representative application server machine comprises commodity hardware Linux and an application server. The database management system may be implemented as an Oracle database management package. In a high volume use environment there may be several web server machines several application server machines and a number of administrative server machines. Although not shown in detail the infrastructure may include a name service other load balancing appliances other switches network attached storage and the like. The system typically will also include connectivity to external data sources such as third party databases. Each machine in the system typically comprises sufficient disk and memory as well as input and output devices. Generally the web servers handle incoming business entity provisioning requests and they export a display interface that is described and illustrated in more detail below. The application servers manage the data and facilitate the functions of the platform. The administrator servers handle all back end accounting and reporting functions. The particular hardware and software implementation details described herein are merely for illustrative purposes are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention.

As noted above preferably the system includes a measurement and analytics system. illustrates a basic operation of an Internet video experience measurement service that may be used for this purpose although this implementation is not meant to be limiting. In this example end user video players and have been instrumented with a usage monitoring API. The usage monitoring API is sometimes referred to as a remote node. Thus video player has associated therewith the remote node and video player has associated therewith the remote node . Of course the use of two instances is merely illustrative as the system is designed to provide a highly scalable distributed logging service wherein a large number of instances of the video player or rich media application are instrumented and tracked. In operation the remote node generates usage data set and remote node generates usage data set . This usage data is transported to a central server or to a set of servers where the data sets are aggregated reference numeral and processed within an analytics and reporting engine .

Although not required a usage monitoring API may be instrumented into or otherwise associated with a video player to collect end user usage data. A representative video player is a Flash video player although the principles of this disclosure are not so limited as the techniques described herein may be implemented in any type of player. For Flash video players a monitoring component preferably packaged as an extension is installed in the video player e.g. using the Macromedia Extension Manager . This component is implemented as an ActionScript library that provides application programming interfaces APIs for developers to integrate their players with the tracking mechanisms of this disclosure. In one embodiment developers directly insert relevant stubs into the code to track whichever events they are interested in. Using the monitoring system events are dispatched aggregated automatically processed and reported. With this approach the remote node implemented as API calls developers are afforded control over the events and the level of granularity they wish to track. An instrumented player typically collects data about system events and user events. System events occur for example when a player is loaded when a video is loaded into the player when the video begins playing when the video is paused when the video finishes scrubbing i.e. after it is forwarded or rewound or when the video ends. User events occur for example when the user hits the pause button scrubs the playhead i.e. move the clip forward or backward ends the scrub i.e. stops moving the clip forward or backward emails the video or clicks a button to get a video s embed code or the like. In this approach a set of ActionScript methods are called whenever a system or user event occurs. When an event occurs API methods typically are combined with one another. A system event and a user event often occur simultaneously and might require two API methods be called at once. A Statistics Collector Timer SCT keeps track of a clip s playhead to ensure that accurate metrics are calculated. When a clip is paused the SCT is paused. When a clip is scrubbed the SCT is informed of the playhead s new position. The one or more system or user events are heard using ActionScript event listeners. An event listener is a piece of code that listens for a defined event and invokes the API method associated therewith.

Preferably the system has the capability for tracking video viewing behavior of an individual viewer for instrumented video players across given video sites given content owners all video players all versions of video players and all browser types and all browser versions. Preferably a single tracking component is used for all sites content players and browsers and preferably a globally unique identifier for each user is used to track each user s activity.

The hardware and software systems in which the invention is illustrated are merely representative. The invention may be practiced typically in software on one or more machines. Generalizing a machine typically comprises commodity hardware and software storage e.g. disks disk arrays and the like and memory RAM ROM and the like . The particular machines used in the network are not a limitation of the present invention. A given machine includes network interfaces and software to connect the machine to a network in the usual manner. As illustrated in log server may be part of a managed service e.g. in an ASP model using the illustrated set of machines which are connected or connectable to one or more networks. More generally the service is provided by an operator using a set of one or more computing related entities systems machines processes programs libraries functions or the like that together facilitate or provide the inventive functionality described above. In a typical implementation the service comprises a set of one or more computers. A representative machine is a network based server running commodity e.g. Pentium class hardware an operating system e.g. Linux Windows OS X or the like an application runtime environment e.g. Java .ASP and a set of applications or processes e.g. Java applets or servlets linkable libraries native code or the like depending on platform that provide the functionality of a given system or subsystem. As described the service may be implemented in a standalone server or across a distributed set of machines. Typically a server connects to the publicly routable Internet a corporate intranet a private network or any combination thereof depending on the desired implementation environment.

The hosted service may be implemented in a multi server cluster environment that is designed to scale efficiently. Each server is designated with a primary and secondary series of tasks. Preferably one server is dynamically set to be a master server which server determines the secondary tasks to be performed by all servers. All servers update their existence within a database and the servers cooperate to determine which server will be the master. The servers in the cluster are assigned tasks such as log import and event processing by the master server.

