---

title: System and method for enabling network access to mass storage devices connected to multi-function devices
abstract: A system for enabling at least one mass storage device connected to at least one multi-function device to be accessible over a network, includes at least one processor; and a computer-readable storage medium in communication with the at least one processor, wherein the computer-readable storage medium comprises one or more programming instructions for receiving a plurality of requests from one or more electronic devices permitted to access the at least one multi-function device and allowing the one or more electronic devices to selectively access and modify electronic information located on the at least one mass storage device connected to the at least one multi-function device and accessible over the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832340&OS=08832340&RS=08832340
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08832340
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110128
---
The present disclosure is generally related to multi function devices and more particularly to a system and method for enabling at least one mass storage device connected to at least one multi function device to be accessible over a network.

 Multi function machines or multifunction devices MFDs have become familiar in offices and in home computing environments. Whereas previously functions such as copying printing and facsimile transmission have been performed by single dedicated copiers printers and facsimiles respectively a multi function machine is typically capable of providing all such functions and more in a single machine. Typically such a multi function machine includes a single print engine which may serve to output copies prints or received facsimiles as well as a single input scanner which may serve to record data from original images for use in copying facsimile transmission and retention of input image data to a predetermined location in a computer memory.

MFDs typically have the necessary hardware such as a Local Area Network LAN card and software such as a network operating system to enable network accessibility. MFDs also typically have ports such as Universal Serial Bus USB ports or interfaces such as an radiofrequency RF or Bluetooth compatible interface through which a peripheral may be connected. Unlike the MFDs the peripheral devices are not network enabled given the cost of the additional hardware and software and therefore are inaccessible over a network.

Attempts to make these peripheral devices network accessible require use of costly proprietary hardware and software. Accordingly there is need in the art for methods and systems to enable a peripheral device which otherwise lacks intrinsic networking capabilities to be accessible over a network once attached to an MFD. Additionally there is a need in the art for a web service architecture which provides network access to peripherals attached to an MFD.

A system is presented for enabling at least one mass storage device connected to at least one multi function device to be accessible over a network the system including at least one processor and a computer readable storage medium in communication with the at least one processor wherein the computer readable storage medium comprises one or more programming instructions for receiving a plurality of requests from one or more electronic devices permitted to access the at least one multi function device and allowing the one or more electronic devices to selectively access and modify electronic information located on the at least one mass storage device connected to the at least one multi function device and accessible over the network.

A method is presented for enabling at least one mass storage device connected to at least one multi function device to be accessible over a network the method including receiving a plurality of requests from one or more servers running local and or remote client applications authenticating access capabilities of the one or more servers to the at least one multi function device and allowing the one or more servers to selectively access and modify electronic information located on the at least one mass storage device connected to the at least one multi function device and accessible over the network.

A communications network is presented including a plurality of multi functional printer machines linked through the communications network a plurality of storage modules in electrical communication with the plurality of multi functional printer machines the plurality of storage modules having electronic information stored therein and a plurality of external devices requesting access to the plurality of storage modules in electrical communication with the plurality of multi functional printer machines wherein the plurality of external devices having authorized access requests are permitted to read write and or delete the electronic information located on the plurality of storage modules and being in electrical communication with the plurality of multi functional printer machines.

Particular embodiments of the present disclosure are described herein below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the following description well known functions or constructions are not described in detail to avoid obscuring the present disclosure in unnecessary detail.

Various modifications to the preferred embodiment disclosed herein will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and the disclosure set forth herein may be applicable to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the present specification and the claims hereto appended. Thus the present specification is not intended to be limited to the embodiments described but is to be accorded the broadest scope consistent with the disclosure set forth herein.

The exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure propose developing an off box Application Programming Interface API for allowing third party vendors to make use of a mass storage device attached to an MFD copier or printer such that the vendor may at least read and write data to and from the mass storage device.

The exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure further propose a system and method for providing the ability to support mass storage devices on the MFD by detecting when a mass storage device is plugged in via an interface such as a USB. Once detected the MFD supports web service based calls for third party applications to detect that a mass storage device is available and allow client applications to at least read write and or delete files from and to the mass storage device. Thus a presence of the at least one mass storage device is detectable either before or after activation of the at least one multi function device.

The exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure further propose providing a plurality of functions via an off box API such that a remote application running on a server may make use of the mass storage device in the same fashion as a native application running directly on the MFD. The server may receive notification that a mass storage device is available on the MFD and may then at least read write and or delete information e.g. electronic files on that mass storage device. Of course one skilled in the art may contemplate that the one or more electronic devices or servers are authenticated prior to accessing the electronic information located on the at least one mass storage device. A plurality of different authentication means may be utilized.

The exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure further propose an MFD that supports the ability of a system administrator to configure an IP address or host name of a server along with a port number that may be used for server client communications. The preconfigured address ensures the security of the data and ensures that such data and communications are sent to a known and expected entity. The mass storage device may be detected at startup assuming it is currently plugged in or after the device is already up and running and a user plugs in a mass storage device. The configured server may query the MFD at any point to inquire as to whether a mass storage device is installed or plugged into the device along with the mass storage device manufacturer and any other pertinent information required to use the mass storage device.

The exemplary embodiments disclosed herein relate generally to the field of peripheral hardware devices and more specifically to a software architecture or web service for enabling network access to peripheral devices such as mass storage devices interfaced with one or more MFDs.

The exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure further propose to support the ability to plug in generic mass storage devices to any MFD thus enabling a system administrator defined server to determine if a mass storage device is detected at start up or if it is plugged into the MFD after it is up and running. The server may obtain files for for example printing or other applications so that is may at least read write and or delete files for a plurality of functions and or purposes.

Prior to describing the present disclosure in further detail it will first be helpful to define various terms that will be used throughout the following discussion. For example 

The term print is overloaded to mean at least sending the document to the printer through any one of a multitude of ways. Moreover the term printer may at least refer to any device that accepts text and graphic output from any type of computing device and transfers the information to any printable medium. A printer may refer to any type of xerographic solid ink liquid ink cut sheet or web based device used to print onto a wide array of printable media. The term printer as used herein encompasses at least any apparatus such as a digital copier bookmaking machine facsimile machine multi function machine etc. which performs a print outputting function for any purpose.

The term multi function machine or MFD may refer at least to any machine that connects to either a computing device and or network and performs one or more of the following functions print scan copy and or fax. Digital copiers fax machines printers and scanner combinations are all examples of MFDs. The term MFD may further refer to at least any hardware that combines several functions in one unit. For instance an MFD may be a standalone printer or any type of standalone machine device apparatus component. For example an MFD may be one or more personal computers PCs a standalone printer a standalone scanner a mobile phone an MP3 player audio electronics video electronics GPS systems televisions recording and or reproducing media such as CDs DVDs camcorders cameras etc. or any other type of consumer or non consumer analog and or digital electronics. Such consumer and or non consumer electronics may apply in any type of entertainment communications home and or office capacity. Thus the term MFDs may refer to any type of electronics suitable for use with a circuit board and intended to be used by a plurality of individuals for a variety of purposes. The terms multi function machine and MFD may be used interchangeably throughout the specification.

MFDs disclosed herein include both those that are connected and those that are unconnected. An unconnected MFD does not have access to a network e.g. the Internet . A connected MFD is normally connected via an Ethernet card or the like to a network. In the present embodiments the MFD may be an unconnected MFD that is in operative communication with a wireless device the wireless device being able to access a network. A connection between the multifunctional device and the wireless device is made through a two way communication channel located on the multifunctional device.

The term storage may refer to at least data storage. Data storage may at least refer to any article or material e.g. a hard disk from which information is capable of being reproduced with or without the aid of any other article or device. Data storage may at least refer to the holding of data in an electromagnetic form for access by a computer processor. Primary storage is data in random access memory RAM and other built in devices. Secondary storage is data on hard disk tapes and other external devices. Data storage may also at least refer to the permanent holding place for digital data until purposely erased. Storage implies a repository that retains its content without power. Storage mostly means magnetic disks magnetic tapes and optical discs CD DVD etc. . Storage may also refer to non volatile memory chips such as flash Read Only memory ROM and or Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM .

The term application in the disclosed embodiments refers to a program designed for end users of a computing device such as a word processing program a database program a browser program a spreadsheet program a gaming program and the like. An application is distinct from systems programs which consist of low level programs that interact with the computing device at a very basic level such as an operating system program a compiler program a debugger program programs for managing computer resources and the like.

The term processing may at least refer to determining the elements or essential features or functions or processes of one or more multi function devices for computational processing. The term process may further refer to tracking data and or collecting data and or manipulating data and or examining data and or updating data on a real time basis in an automatic manner and or a selective manner and or manual manner continuously periodically or intermittently .

The term module may at least refer to a self contained component unit or item that is used in combination with other components and or a separate and distinct unit of hardware or software that may be used as a component in a system such as a printing system including a plurality of multi function printers and or MFDs. The term module may also at least refer to a self contained assembly of electronic components and circuitry such as a stage in a computer that is installed as a unit.

The term task refers to a print scan copy and or fax job or any type of function that may be performed by an MFD. The term task may also refer to an execution path through address space such as a set of program instructions that are loaded in a data storage means. The term task may also at least refer to a basic unit of programming that an operating system controls and depending on how the operating system defines a task in its design this unit of programming may be an entire program or each successive invocation of a program. The term task may be used interchangeably with the term function. 

The term electronic device may at least refer to one or more personal computers PCs a standalone printer a standalone scanner a mobile phone an MP3 player audio electronics video electronics GPS systems televisions recording and or reproducing media such as CDs DVDs camcorders cameras etc. or any other type of consumer or non consumer analog and or digital electronics. Such consumer and or non consumer electronics may apply in any type of entertainment communications home and or office capacity. Thus the term electronic device may at least refer to any type of electronics suitable for use with a circuit board and intended to be used by a plurality of individuals for a variety of purposes.

The term notification may refer to a visual or audible indication alerting the user of various status conditions relating to the mass storage devices. Notification is the act of notifying someone of something or making a formal announcement. Notification may also refer to the warning or announcing of something usually done in advance.

Embodiments will be described below while referencing the accompanying figures. The accompanying figures are merely examples and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Referring to a system diagram including a multi function device in electrical communication with a mass storage device and a client application in accordance with the present disclosure is presented.

The system diagram depicts an end user having a client application e.g. a computer that communicates with a multi function device . The multi function device is in operable communication with a mass storage device via an interface . The system enables the mass storage device to be accessible remotely over a network such as the Internet. Such network system will be further described with reference to .

Additionally the client application and the multi function device may each include at least one processor. The processor may include at least one conventional processor or microprocessor that interprets and executes instructions. The processor may be a general purpose processor or a special purpose integrated circuit such as an ASIC application specific integrated circuit and may include more than one processor sections.

Moreover the client application and the multi function device may each include at least one memory unit or memory module. The memory may be a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processor. The memory may also include a read only memory ROM which may include a conventional ROM device or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processor located within the multi function device . The memory may be any memory device that stores data for use by system for example a data storage system as defined herein.

Additionally multifunction device may include input output devices I O devices that may include one or more conventional input mechanisms that permit a user to input information to the system such as a microphone touchpad keypad keyboard mouse pen stylus voice recognition device buttons etc. and output mechanisms such as one or more conventional mechanisms that output information to the user including a display one or more speakers a storage medium such as a memory magnetic or optical disk disk drive a printer device etc. and or interfaces for the above.

Referring to a system diagram including a multi function device in electrical communication with a mass storage device connected via a network to a remote server having a client application program in accordance with the present disclosure is presented.

The system includes a client application program and a server in electrical communication with a network . A plurality of multi function devices may be in electrical communication with the network . The plurality of multi function devices are connected to a plurality of mass storage devices via interfaces . System enables the mass storage devices to be accessible over the network so that the server may access and or modify electronic information on the plurality of mass storage devices . The plurality of multi function devices implement a mass storage device web service application located within the plurality of multi function devices that enable the plurality of mass storage devices to be accessible to a client application program running on the server over the network .

Additionally the server may use a query routine to communicate with the plurality of mass storage devices connected to the plurality of multi function devices . The query routine may be configured to query the plurality of multi function devices when the user first opens a user interface not shown via the client application program . This provides the user with instantaneous status information. The query routine may be configured to query the plurality of multi function devices in accordance with a predetermined period schedule. Whatever information is received in response to the query routine may be provided to the user interface. This provides the user with dynamic updates directly at the remote location. The query routine may be configured to query the plurality of multi function devices in response to the status of the plurality of mass storage devices . The query routine may be configured such that updating or accessing or modifying of electronic information occurs with minimal user interruption.

Moreover each of the plurality of multi function devices may include a user interface not shown . Such user interface may allow the user of the plurality of multi function devices to select one or more print attributes to apply to the one or more electronic documents or information selected. The one or more print attributes may include at least one or more of the following plex color quantity stapling paper size margins watermark etc. The user may apply these print attributes directly from the plurality of multi function devices or from the client application program to the electronic documents or information stored on the plurality of mass storage devices .

Thus the user may simply walk to the plurality of multi function devices or use the client application program of the server to access the desired electronic documents or information directly from the plurality of multi function devices or directly from the client application program . Once the print attributes have been selected and applied to the electronic documents or information selected the user may print such modified altered documents i.e. including the print attributes selected and store such modified document s either to that multi function device or may send such modified document to a plurality of host devices or electronic devices or store them on the server .

In summary the one or more electronic devices are permitted to select one or more attributes stored on the at least one multi function device and apply the one or more attributes selected to the electronic information located on the at least one mass storage device. Moreover once the modified electronic information has the one or more attributes applied thereto such modified information may be i stored on the at least one mass storage device and or ii transmitted back to the one or more electronic devices.

Referring to a high level diagram of a plurality of mass storage devices connected to a plurality of multi function devices in a web service architecture in accordance with the present disclosure in accordance with the present disclosure is presented.

In one embodiment the web service architecture is implemented on one or more MFDs see in the form of a plurality of application layers . At the lowest application level the application comprises a device platform layer which comprises the operating system and driver framework capable of interacting with the mass storage device attached or connected to the MFD via an interface on which the application is being executed.

The device platform layer interacts with the mass storage device by in one embodiment interfacing through a standard USB hardware interface . More specifically on connecting the mass storage device to the MFD the device platform layer interfaces with and manages the peripheral device using the necessary peripheral driver which is unique to each type of peripheral. The device platform in turn provides the interface between the platform adaptor layer and the mass storage device . It should be appreciated that in accordance with a standard USB implementation the MFD comprises or obtains a driver for the USB device loads the driver and actively interfaces with the USB device in accordance with the driver software.

The platform adaptor layer abstracts the lower level hardware methods processes and functions into a higher level of functionality thereby serving to decouple the web service layer from the device platform . Thus the adaptor layer has the ability to abstract peripheral driver functions which are implemented on each platform differently and are therefore dependent on the underlying platform layer and make those abstracted functions universally available to remote devices via the web service layer . In accordance with an aspect of the layered web service architecture these low level functions and configuration continue to be handled by the MFD operating system and driver software at the device platform layer while the high level functions of the mass storage device are exposed to the web service layer . This enables the web service layer to be portable and uncoupled from the underlying device platform .

The web service layer comprises a plurality of Application Programming Interfaces APIs that may be accessed over a network see such as the Internet and executed on the MFD hosting the requested services. In one embodiment the web service layer comprises web APIs that enable an application program residing on a remote server to make web service based calls to the peripheral device attached to the MFD. In another embodiment the application program residing on a remote server receives web service based calls from the MFD in accordance with user based interactions with the attached mass storage device . The web based calls communication happen over the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP protocol using Extensible Markup Language XML messages that follow the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP standard and updates future versions or derivations thereof. In one embodiment a Web Service Description Language WSDL is used to describe at least one web service and the methodology of accessing the web service and generate the appropriate functions for handling SOAP messaging.

The web service layer APIs provide an interface to an application program which desires to transmit data and or commands and or receive data and or commands from the mass storage device thereby making use of the functionality of the mass storage device as if it was independently network accessible. In one embodiment the client application program resides on a remote server interfacing with the web service layer over a network. In alternate embodiments the client application program resides locally on the MFD that hosts the hardware peripherals web service software architecture .

The client application program sends requests to and receives responses from the web service layer . To service the requests and provide the responses the web service layer uses the abstracted functionality exposed and made available by the platform adaptor layer . Through the abstracted functionality the web service layer may submit the requests and receive the responses via the device platform . Similarly events pertaining to the mass storage device may be communicated to the web service layer by the underlying layers . The web service layer then communicates these events to the client application program .

Referring to a flowchart depicting a method for enabling at least one mass storage device connected to at least one multi function device to be accessible over a network in accordance with the present disclosure is presented.

The flowchart includes the following steps. In step the mass storage device is connected to an MFD. In step a request is sent to the MFD from a client application connected to the MFD via a network. In step the client application is permitted access and permitted to modify electronic information i.e. files documents etc. located on the mass storage device connected to the MFD via the network. The process then ends for the first cycle or first iteration. However the process may be a continuous iterative process. In other words the steps of the process may repeat for a number of cycles or iterations where at least the accessing authenticating and modifying steps are constantly and continuously repeated.

In an alternative embodiment the electronic information located on the at least one mass storage device is divided into categories one or more of the categories being accessible by different authorized clients operating the one or more electronic devices. In other words different servers or electronic devices may be permitted access only to specific areas of the mass storage devices.

Advantages of the present disclosure include at least the following i the ability of customers to use mass storage devices for their specific applications ii elimination of customer specific add on boxes currently being used to support printing from a mass storage device iii reducing the need to embed customer specific codes on the MFDs for customer specific mass storage applications iv presenting an API that is generic enough to support most if not all mass storage devices for any desired purpose v allowing printing files from mass storage devices without any modifications to the MFD software and vi the ability to add custom watermarks to electronic documents or information and store such modified electronic documents or information on the mass storage device or in any remote location e.g. servers .

Additionally another advantage of the present disclosure includes allowing the writing of files to mass storage devices without any modifications to the MFD software. For example a third party application on an external server may scan files on the MFD by using a web service API and then write them to the mass storage device.

As a result the ability to abstract core peripheral device functionality and make such functionality universally available to third party applications eliminates the need to upgrade update or modify remote client applications every time the MFD or peripheral device such as a mass storage device has been updated upgraded or otherwise modified. Therefore remote client applications remain compatible with peripherals as they change. Moreover by abstracting higher level peripheral functionality the complexity of the raw hardware interface or the lowest hardware configuration level continues to be handled by dedicated drivers and is not managed or otherwise addressed by the web service interface thereby making the interfacing process generally and each web service in particular scalable simple extensible portable and platform independent.

Embodiments as disclosed herein may also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media may comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Computer executable instructions also include program modules that are executed by computers in stand alone or network environments. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components and data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of the program code means for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Additionally code as used herein or program as used herein is any plurality of binary values or any executable interpreted or compiled code which may be used by a computer or execution device to perform a task. This code or program may be written in any one of several known computer languages. A computer as used herein may mean any device which stores processes routes manipulates or performs like operation on data. A computer may be incorporated within one or more MFDs or servers or electronic devices to operate one or more processors to run the MFD network system.

The language translation software program may be packaged and distributed as a software package for downloading to the multifunctional printer device where the set of programmable instructions are stored within at least one computer readable medium such as a CD ROM diskette etc. The language translation software program may also be downloaded to the multifunctional printer device through a network connection connecting the multifunctional printer device to a remote computer station such as a remote server.

A service provider may be any entity that develops offers controls manages owns alters and or sells software and or hardware products. A service provider may be any entity that performs one or more tasks on one or more pre existing MFDs which may or may not be controlled or owned by the service provider. For example the entity may offer a service with an existing software package and or with any type of existing Internet based service through the Internet. In other words a service provider need not own or provide the MFDs. The MFDs may be owned or provided by any third party not related or associated with the service provider. In the present disclosure it is contemplated that the entity such as a service provider may offer any type of service and or product to optimize pre existing pre owned MFDs by referring potential customers to an Internet website or a store that may or may not be associated with printing related services and or products. The term entity may refer to anything that may exist as a discrete and or distinct unit that owns operates manages and or controls one or more of a plurality of machines or electronic devices such as MFDs . For example the term entity may include the term company. 

Further although aspects of the present disclosure have been described herein in the context of several particular implementations in particular environments for particular purposes those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present disclosure may be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. For example though the disclosure has been described in terms of a security system all its functionality would be useful in any situation where immediate contact with a third party is required.

It is to be understood therefore that this disclosure is not limited to the particular forms illustrated and that it is intended in the appended claims to embrace all alternatives modifications and variations which do not depart from the spirit and scope of the embodiments described herein.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

