---

title: Optimizing recategorization of financial transactions using collaborative filtering
abstract: A method to optimize recategorization of financial transactions using collaborative filtering involves obtaining a set of financial transactions of a set of users with a merchant. The method also involves determining, using a processor, a first portion of the set of financial transactions assigned to each recategorization value of a set of recategorization values; determining, using the processor, a second portion of the set of financial transactions where the each recategorization value is different from an initial category; generating, using the processor, a recategorization index for each recategorization value using the first portion of each recategorization value and the second portion; and determining, using the processor, an alternative categorization candidate based on the recategorization index of the each recategorization value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08538967&OS=08538967&RS=08538967
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08538967
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110112
---
Many consumers monitor their spending habits with merchants using financial applications. The financial applications may store records of financial transactions with the merchants. A consumer may use a financial application to filter and review the financial transactions to make decisions about the consumer s budget. For example the consumer may use the financial application to analyze the consumer s spending habits in view of his income.

Typically a consumer categorizes the financial transactions stored in the financial application to allow the consumer to perform analysis based on the categorization of financial transactions. In this case categorized financial transactions may be used to generate reports with summarized financial data based on the categories allowing the consumer to allocate funds to particular categories.

In some cases financial applications attempt to automatically categorize financial transactions based on the name of the merchants. If a category is incorrectly assigned to a merchant a consumer may recategorize the financial transaction manually. Further the financial application may remember the consumer s recategorization and apply the same recategorization for future financial transactions of the consumer with the same merchant.

In general in one or more aspects the invention relates to a method for optimizing recategorization of financial transactions using collaborative filtering comprising obtaining a plurality of financial transactions of a plurality of users with a merchant each of the plurality of financial transactions comprising user identification for one of the plurality of users a merchant name of the merchant an initial category assigned to each of the plurality of financial transactions and a recategorization value of a plurality of recategorization values for each of the plurality of financial transactions determining using a processor a first portion of the plurality of financial transactions assigned to each recategorization value of the plurality of recategorization values determining using the processor a second portion of the plurality of financial transactions where the each recategorization value is different from the initial category generating using the processor a recategorization index for the each recategorization value using the first portion of the each recategorization value and the second portion and determining using the processor an alternative categorization candidate based on the recategorization index of the each recategorization value.

In general in one or more aspects the invention relates to a system for optimizing recategorization of financial transactions using collaborative filtering comprising a processor a memory an application interface stored on the memory for executing on the processor and configured to obtain a plurality of financial transactions of a plurality of users with a merchant each of the plurality of financial transactions comprising user identification for one of the plurality of users a merchant name of the merchant an initial category assigned to each of the plurality of financial transactions and a recategorization value of a plurality of recategorization values for each of the plurality of financial transactions and a recategorization optimization module stored on the memory for executing on the processor and configured to determine a first portion of the plurality of financial transactions assigned to each recategorization value of the plurality of recategorization values determine a second portion of the plurality of financial transactions where the each recategorization value is different from the initial category generate a recategorization index for the each recategorization value using the first portion of the each recategorization value and the second portion and determine an alternative categorization candidate based on the recategorization index of the each recategorization value.

In general in one or more aspects the invention relates to a computer readable storage medium embodying instructions executable by the computer to perform method steps for optimizing recategorization of financial transactions using collaborative filtering the instructions comprising functionality to obtain a plurality of financial transactions of a plurality of users with a merchant each of the plurality of financial transactions comprising user identification for one of the plurality of users a merchant name of the merchant an initial category assigned to each of the plurality of financial transactions and a recategorization value of a plurality of recategorization values for each of the plurality of financial transactions determine a first portion of the plurality of financial transactions assigned to each recategorization value of the plurality of recategorization values determine a second portion of the plurality of financial transactions where the each recategorization value is different from the initial category generate a recategorization index for the each recategorization value using the first portion of the each recategorization value and the second portion and determine an alternative categorization candidate based on the recategorization index of the each recategorization value.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a method and system for optimizing recategorization of financial transactions using collaborative filtering. More specifically embodiments of the invention provide a method and system to obtain and analyze categorization and recategorization data from financial applications of a user community. Further the analysis of the data from the user community is used to calculate alternative categories for financial transactions that are presented to users of the financial applications.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the financial application s are configured to interact with the recategorization optimization system . More specifically the financial application s may be or may contain a form of an internet based communication device that is capable of communicating with the recategorization optimization system . The financial application s may be executed on for example a desktop computer with internet access a laptop computer with internet access a smart phone and a personal digital assistant PDA .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the financial application s may be operated by the user s which may include but are not limited to an individual a group an organization or some other legal entity. Optionally the financial application s may interact directly with online banking application s . For example in some embodiments the financial application s obtain financial transaction data from the online banking application s .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the user s may participate in financial transactions with merchant s to purchase goods and or services. The user s may be members of a user community that use related financial application s for managing financial transactions. For example the user s may be a group of consumers that use the financial application s for budget management. The merchant s may be any entity capable of providing goods and or services to the user s . Examples of merchant s may include but are not limited to a retailer at a point of sale an online retailer a service provider etc. In one or more embodiments of the invention the merchant s accept payment from the user s in exchange for the goods and or services.

In one or more embodiments of the invention online banking application s are configured to monitor the financial transactions of the user s with the merchant s . More specifically the online banking application s may receive financial transactions from the user s and or merchant s . Examples of data related to the financial transactions may include but are not limited to merchant name transaction date transaction amount etc.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the financial application s are configured to obtain financial transactions from the online banking application s and or the user s . For example the financial application s may be configured to receive financial transactions from the online banking application s on a periodic basis. In this example the financial application s may be configured to store login credentials of the user s for accessing the online banking application s .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the recategorization optimization system is configured to obtain financial data from the financial application s and or the online banking application s . Specifically the recategorization optimization system may be configured to obtain financial transactions categorization data and or recategorization data from the financial application s using application interface s . The application interface s may support a variety of protocols of different financial applications e.g. desktop financial application web financial application mobile web application etc. . Further the categorization data and recategorization data is related to the merchant s of the financial transactions. For example a merchant selling clothing in a financial transaction may be categorized as participating in a shopping financial transaction. In another example an electric provider acting as a merchant may be categorized as participating in a utilities financial transaction. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that any number of categories may be used by user s to categorize and recategorize merchants participating in financial transactions.

Optionally in one or more embodiments of the invention the recategorization optimization system may also be configured to obtain financial transactions from the online banking application s using the banking application interface s . The banking application interface s may support a variety of protocols for online banking application s of different financial institutions.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the recategorization optimization system is configured to store categorization information in the categorization optimization data repository . Categorizations information may include data about the categorizing and recategorizing of financial transactions. The stored categorization information may include a number of fields including but are not limited to a user identifier a merchant name a categorization value and a recategorization value. The recategorization optimization system may be configured to monitor the optimization data repository for categorization information. The categorization information may come from a variety of sources including but not limited to the financial application s the online banking application s other sources or a combination thereof.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the processor within the recategorization optimization system is configured to execute one or more components of the recategorization optimization system . Specifically the processor may be configured to execute the recategorization optimization module or any of the engines modules generators and repositories of the recategorization optimization system . The processor may be an integrated circuit a central processing unit a multi core processing chip a multi chip module including multiple multi core processing chips or other hardware processor. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the processor may be known by other names including but not limited to a computer processor a microprocessor a hardware processor and a multi core processor. In one or more embodiments of the invention the processor is configured to execute software instructions stored in memory not shown . The memory may include one or more cache memories main memory and or any other suitable type of memory. The memory may be discretely located on the purchased item data processing unit relative to the processor . In certain configurations the memory may also be integrated with the processor .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the recategorization optimization system may be configured to analyze financial data using the recategorization optimization module . More specifically the recategorization optimization system may be configured to determine alternative categorizations for financial transactions in the financial data. The analysis of financial data by the recategorization optimization system is discussed in detail with respect to below.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the recategorization optimization system is configured to receive a request from the financial application s for alternative categorizations for financial transactions. More specifically the application interface s is configured to receive and process requests from the financial application s . For example a financial application may send a request for alternative categories of a merchant to the recategorization optimization system when a user is reviewing a record of a financial transaction with the merchant. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of financial application s may be supported by the application interface s . In this case the application interface s may provide one or more application programming interfaces API that may be used by different financial applications e.g. desktop financial application web financial application mobile financial application etc. .

In one embodiment of the invention the recategorization optimization data repository is a persistent storage device or set of devices and is configured to store the financial transaction categorization information etc. Examples of a recategorization optimization data repository include but are not limited to a data base a file system a hard drive some other form of data storage or any suitable combination thereof.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the user interface is configured to interact with administrators of the recategorization optimization system . More specifically the user interface may be configured to receive requests from an administrator to analyze financial data to generate recategorization indexes. The user interface may include a keypad a keyboard a touch screen a mouse a voice activated interface some other means of interacting with the user or any suitable combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the aforementioned components may be located on a single system or distributed across multiple systems. Further in embodiments in which the components are distributed across multiple systems the distributed components may communicate over wired and or wireless connections using well known communication protocols.

In Step financial transactions of member s of a user community with a merchant are obtained. More specifically categorization and recategorization data for the financial transactions may be obtained from financial applications of the members of the user community. In this case the categorization and recategorization data may include user identification information merchant information categorization values and recategorization values. In one or more embodiments of the invention the categorization and recategorization data is initially obtained when the members review and categorize financial transactions managed by the financial applications. For example a member of the user community may review financial transactions of a credit card and categorize each of the financial transactions when managing the member s budget with the financial application. In this example the financial application may monitor the categorizations and recategorizations of financial transactions performed by the user. Prior to providing the financial transactions the financial applications may conceal personal information of the members to ensure that the privacy of the members are protected. For example the financial transactions may be associated with random unique identifiers that cannot be traced back to the members.

In Step a first portion of the financial transactions that is assigned to each recategorization value is determined. Each first portion includes financial transactions that have been assigned to a corresponding recategorization value by a number of members in the user community. Further the first portion may be limited to only include financial transactions where the recategorization value is different from the initial categorization value. The initial categorization value may be a category e.g. shopping utilities business etc. initially assigned by a user or automatically assigned by a financial application to the merchant of a financial transaction. The recategorization value may be a category e.g. shopping utilities business etc. subsequently assigned when the initial categorization value is determined to be incorrect by the member or financial application.

In Step a second portion of the financial transactions that are associated with a recategorization value that is different from the initial categorization value is identified. In other words the second portion includes all financial transactions that have been recategorized to a different category.

In Step a determination is made as to whether the second portion satisfies a predetermined threshold. The predetermined threshold may ensure that the set of financial transactions analyzed is sufficiently large enough to be statistically significant. In other words the determination ensures that a certain quantity of financial transactions has been recategorized. For example the predetermined threshold may be satisfied when at least five percent of all financial transactions have been recategorized.

In Step a recategorization index is generated for each unique recategorization value using the first portion and the second portion. For example the recategorization index may be calculated using Equation 1 below 

In Step an alternative categorization candidate is determined based on the recategorization index of each distinct recategorization value. In the example of recategorization indexes calculated using Equation 1 above the alternative categorization candidate is the recategorization value with the highest recategorization index. In one or more embodiments of the invention multiple alternative categorization candidates may be determined and ranked based on the recategorization indexes. For example a categorization index specifying a candidate rank greater than or equal to 0.5 may correspond to a strong candidate a candidate rank greater than or equal to 0.3 and less than 0.5 may correspond to a potential candidate and a candidate rank less than 0.3 may correspond to random noise. In this example a categorization index specifying a candidate rank of random noise may excluded the corresponding categorization value from being determined as an alternative categorization.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the alternative categorization candidates may be provided in an ordered list for selection by the member or the financial application. In this case the ordered list of alternative categorizations may be determined by sorting the recategorization values based on the recategorization indexes. For example the recategorization values may be sorted in a drop down user interface element from highest to lowest recategorization index. In this example the first recategorization value in the drop down user interface element is provided as the primary alternative categorization candidate.

In one or more embodiments of the invention a financial application may use alternative categorization candidates to improve existing rules for automatically categorizing financial transactions. For example the financial application may automatically assign an improper category to a financial transaction obtained in Step . In this case the alternative categorization candidates may be used to update a rule of the financial application so that future categorizations of financial transactions with the merchant are automatically assigned a strong alternative categorization candidate.

In Step financial transactions of members in the user community are transmitted from the merchant to the online banking application . Each of the financial transactions is associated with the merchant and a member of the user community. For example the merchant may be an online retailer where the financial transactions are online purchases by the members of the user community. In another example the merchant may be a retailer at a point of sale where the financial transactions are purchases by the members of the user community at a brick and mortar store.

In Step the financial transactions are transmitted from the online banking application to financial applications of the user community . Specifically financial transactions associated with each member of the user community are transmitted to a corresponding financial application of the member. The financial application may be configured to monitor financial transactions for managing the budget of the member. The financial application may present the financial transactions and request that the member categorize financial transactions i.e. provide categorization data . Further the member may also recategorize financial transactions that were initial categorized in the wrong category i.e. provide recategorization data .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that each member of the user community may configure the member s corresponding financial application to periodically obtain financial transactions from the online banking application. In this case each member may store the member s login credentials for use by the member s financial application.

In Step categorized financial transactions are transmitted from the financial applications of the user community to the recategorization optimization system . Categorized financial transactions are obtained from a financial application of each member of the user community. In this example at least one of the financial transactions from each of the financial applications is associated with the merchant .

In Step recategorization indexes are determined based on the categorized financial transactions. More specifically a recategorization index may be calculated using the categorization data and recategorization data provided by the members of the user community as discussed above with respect to .

In Step financial transaction A with user A is transmitted from the merchant to the online banking application . As discussed above financial transaction A of user A may be for example an online purchase or a purchase from a brick and mortar store.

In Step financial transaction A is transmitted from the online banking application to the financial application of user A . As discussed above user A may store login credentials for use by the financial application of user A to periodically obtain financial transactions from the online banking application . The financial application of user A may present the financial transaction A to user A for categorization based on the merchant name.

In Step categorized financial transaction A is transmitted from the financial application of user A to the recategorization optimization system . In Step the recategorization optimization system transmits an alternative categorization for financial transaction A to the financial application of user A . The alternative categorization is determined based on recategorization indexes calculated based on the financial data from the financial applications of the user community . For example the alternative categorization may be the recategorization value with the highest recategorization index which indicates that the recategorization value was selected for a relative majority of recategorized financial transactions.

In Step the alternative categorization for financial transaction A is presented to user A. For example if user A initially categorized financial transaction A as utilities in Step the alternative categorization may specify that financial transaction A should be categorized as shopping. 

In Step user A s selection of the alternative categorization is transmitted from the financial application of user A to the recategorization optimization system . The selection of the alternative categorization may then be used to update the recategorization indexes calculated in Step .

In Step additional categorized financial transactions are transmitted from the financial applications of the user community to the recategorization optimization system . The recategorization optimization may continually obtain categorization data from the financial applications of the user community for updating the recategorization indexes.

In Step updated recategorization indexes may be determined. More specifically the updated recategorization indexes may be calculated using the categorized financial transactions received in Step and the additional categorized financial transactions received in Step . The updated recategorizations may then be used to determine an updated alternative categorization for financial transaction A.

In Step the updated alternative recategorization is transmitted from the recategorization optimization system to the financial application of user A . The financial application of user A may then present the updated alternative categorization to user A.

The following show examples in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The examples are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Referring to shows an example of community transaction records in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The community transaction records include data columns for user identification ID merchant category and recategorization value .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the community transaction records are obtained from a user community . For example the community transaction records may be obtained from financial applications of the members of the user community as discussed above with respect to . Each of the community transaction records is associated with a member of the user community as shown in the user ID data column. In this example five community transaction records are shown where each record is associated with a different member of the user community .

Each of the five community transaction records is associated with the Coffee Stop as shown in the merchant data column. In other words the community transaction records may be used to calculate a recategorization index for financial transactions associated with the Coffee Stop. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that any number of transaction records may be used to calculate a recategorization index for a merchant.

The category data column shows the initial categories assigned to each of the community transaction records . In this example the merchant Coffee Stop was assigned an initial category of shopping three times an initial category of food one time and an initial category of business one time.

In addition the merchant Coffee Stop was assigned a recategorization value of food three times a recategorization value of shopping one time and a recategorization value of null one time. Accordingly three of the community transaction records were recategorized i.e. not assigned a null recategorization value and assigned a recategorization value that is different from the initial category by the user community. In this example there are two distinct recategorization values food and shopping. The recategorization index of each distinct recategorization value may be calculated as shown below in equations 2 and 3 

Referring to shows an example of a transaction list user interface in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The toolbar includes transaction records alternative categorizations and a done button .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the transaction list user interface is presented in a financial application which may be the same as the financial application described above with respect to . In this example each of the transaction records includes a date merchant name amount and category. The financial application may present the transaction list user interface to allow a user to categorize the transaction records .

The alternative categories are displayed when a user selects the drop down box for the transaction record associated with the Coffee Stop. Based on the recategorization indexes calculated above with respect to the alternative categorizations show business as the current category food as the primary alternative category and shopping as the secondary alternative category. Food is shown as the primary alternative category because food has the highest categorization index as calculated above with respect to . Once the user has finished categorizing the transaction records the done button may be selected to save the changes and exit the transaction list user interface .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other configurations of user interfaces may be used to present alternative categories to the user. For example the category column may be presented as a textbox with autocompletions that favor alternative categories.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in FIG. a computer system includes one or more processor s such as an integrated circuit a central processing unit or other hardware processor associated memory e.g. random access memory RAM cache memory flash memory etc. a storage device e.g. a hard disk an optical drive such as a compact disk drive or digital video disk DVD drive a flash memory stick etc. and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The computer may also include input means such as a keyboard a mouse or a microphone not shown . Further the computer may include output means such as a monitor e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display or cathode ray tube CRT monitor . The computer system may be connected to a network e.g. a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or any other similar type of network via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that many different types of computer systems exist e.g. desktop computer a laptop computer a personal media device a mobile device such as a cell phone or personal digital assistant or any other computing system capable of executing computer readable instructions and the aforementioned input and output means may take other forms. Generally speaking the computer system includes at least the minimal processing input and or output means necessary to practice embodiments of the invention.

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer system may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network. Further embodiments of the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention e.g. the donation management system browser application may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one embodiment of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory. The node may alternatively correspond to a processor with shared memory and or resources. Further software instructions to perform embodiments of the invention may be stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape or any other computer readable storage device.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments may be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

