---

title: Image forming apparatus having a movably supported transfer belt detector
abstract: The image forming apparatus includes an image bearing member bearing a toner image; a driving roller and a tension roller movable in such a direction that the interval between the rollers changes; a transfer belt stretched by the rollers to feed a receiving material so that the toner image on the image bearing member is transferred onto the receiving material or to directly receive the toner image from the image bearing member; a detector opposed to the tension roller with the belt therebetween to optically detect a mark on the belt, wherein the detector is movably supported while biased toward the tension roller, and the moving direction of the tension roller is substantially the same as an optical axis of light emitted by the detector; and a regulator to regulate movement of the tension roller and the detector in a direction perpendicular to the moving direction of the tension roller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08467709&OS=08467709&RS=08467709
owner: Ricoh Company, Limited
number: 08467709
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110127
---
The present invention relates to an image forming apparatus. Particularly the present invention relates to an image forming apparatus having a transfer belt tightly stretched by a driving roller and a tension roller.

Electrophotographic image forming apparatuses are broadly classified into direct transfer type image forming apparatuses in which a toner image formed on a surface of an image bearing member such as photoreceptors is directly transferred onto a receiving material such as paper sheets and indirect transfer type image forming apparatuses in which one or more toner images formed on surfaces of multiple image bearing members are primary transferred onto an intermediate transfer belt and the toner images are then transferred onto a receiving material. The indirect transfer type image forming apparatuses are typically used as multi color image forming apparatuses such as full color image forming apparatuses .

Multi color image forming apparatuses using an intermediate transfer belt typically include the following image forming processes 

Direct transfer type multi color image forming apparatuses typically include the following image forming processes 

Hereinafter an intermediate transfer belt and a direct transfer belt are referred to as a transfer belt in this application.

Such a transfer belt is typically tightly stretched by plural rollers such as a combination of a driving roller and a tension roller while a tension is applied to the transfer belt using a member such as a tension roller so that each of the plural rollers does not cause slipping and an image misalignment problem which is caused by the slipping and in which different color toner images on image bearing members are not transferred to the desired positions of the transfer belt or a receiving material resulting in formation of a misaligned color image.

In addition there are image forming apparatuses having a transfer belt stretched by a combination of a driving roller and a movable roller which serves as a tension roller and is movable in such a direction that the interval between the driving roller and the movable roller is changed to miniaturize the image forming apparatuses.

Some of such image forming apparatuses include a detector which is provided so as to be opposed to a tension roller to optically detect a toner image formed on a transfer belt to adjust transfer positions of the following toner images and to prevent occurrence of the image misalignment problem or to optically detect marks formed on a transfer belt at regular intervals to control the moving speed of the transfer belt. For example there is an image forming apparatus in which an image reading sensor serving as a detector is provided on a holding member holding a tension roller supporting a transfer belt so that the sensor is opposed to the tension roller with the transfer belt therebetween.

In this image forming apparatus the shaft of the tension roller and the image reading sensor are held by the holding member. Therefore if the holding member is damaged for example there is a case in which when the unit is detached from the image forming apparatus to replace the transfer belt the holding member mistakenly strikes against the main body of the image forming apparatus the detection accuracy of the sensor deteriorates due to change of the position of the light spot formed by the sensor and the distance between the sensor and the transfer belt. In addition it is necessary for the holding member to have good dimensional accuracy so that the accuracy of the sensor can be satisfactorily shown.

For these reasons the present inventors recognized that there is a need for an image forming apparatus which includes a transfer belt tightly stretched by a driving roller and a tension roller and a detector optically detecting a mark such as a toner image on a surface of the transfer belt wherein the detector is accurately positioned relative to the tension roller so that the position of a light spot formed by the detector is hardly changed and thereby the mark on the transfer belt can be accurately detected by the detector.

This patent specification describes a novel image forming apparatus one embodiment of which includes an image bearing member configured to bear a toner image thereon a driving roller a tension roller movable in such a direction that the interval between the driving roller and the tension roller changes a transfer belt which is tightly stretched by the driving roller and the tension roller to feed a receiving material while being contacted therewith so that the toner image on the image bearing member is transferred onto the receiving material or to directly receive the toner image from the image bearing member and a detector which is opposed to the tension roller with the transfer belt therebetween to optically detect a mark formed on the surface of the transfer belt.

The detector is movably supported while biased toward the tension roller and the moving direction of the tension roller is substantially the same as the optical axis of detection light emitted by the optical detector. In addition the image forming apparatus includes a regulator to regulate movement of the tension roller and the detector in a direction perpendicular to the moving direction of the tension roller.

The color image forming apparatus illustrated in is a quad tandem color image forming apparatus having an intermediate transfer belt serving as a transfer belt and four image forming units for forming yellow Y magenta M cyan C and black K color toner images are arranged side by side at regular intervals while extending in a moving direction of the intermediate transfer belt indicated by an arrow A.

The image forming units have the same configuration except that different color toners are used therefor and each of the image forming units includes a drum shaped photoreceptor Y M C and K serving as an image bearing member a charger configured to charge the surface of the photoreceptor an irradiator configured to irradiate the charged photoreceptor with a light beam to form an electrostatic latent image on the photoreceptor a developing device configured to develop the electrostatic latent image using a color toner i.e. a yellow magenta cyan or black color toner and a cleaning blade configured to clean the surface of the photoreceptor wherein the charger developing device and cleaning blade are arranged around the photoreceptor.

The irradiator adjusts the light intensity depending on the detected resistance of the intermediate transfer belt as mentioned below. The developing device includes four developing devices i.e. yellow magenta cyan and black color image developing devices configured to develop electrostatic latent images formed on the photoreceptors Y M C and K using yellow magenta cyan and black color toners respectively. When a full color image is formed the yellow magenta cyan and black color image developing devices form yellow magenta cyan and black color toner images in this order and the Y M C and K color toner images are transferred onto a surface of the intermediate transfer belt so as to be overlaid thereby forming a combined multi color toner image on the intermediate transfer belt. The combined multi color toner image is then transferred onto a receiving material and then fixed to the receiving material by a fixing device resulting in formation of a full color image.

The intermediate transfer belt is tightly stretched by a driving roller and a tension roller which is movable in directions indicated by a double headed arrow B so that the interval between the driving roller and the tension roller changes. Since the driving roller is rotated by a driving motor not shown the intermediate transfer belt is rotated in the direction A. In this example the moving speed of the intermediate transfer belt i.e. the process speed is 150 mm sec. Four primary transfer bias rollers Y M C and K are provided so as to be contacted with the inner surface of the intermediate transfer belt while opposed to the photoreceptors Y M C and K respectively. In addition a first counter roller serving as a counter roller of a belt cleaner and a second counter roller serving as a counter roller of a lubricant applicator brush are also provided so as to be contacted with the inner surface of the intermediate transfer belt . These rollers are supported by two side plates of a transfer belt unit not shown provided on both sides of the intermediate transfer belt .

The primary transfer bias rollers Y M C and K are arranged so as to be opposed to the photoreceptors Y M C and K respectively with the intermediate transfer belt therebetween and a predetermined bias 1 800V in this example is applied to each of the primary transfer bias rollers.

The intermediate transfer belt has one or more layers each of which is typically made of a material such as a polyvinylidene fluoride resin PVDF an ethylene tetrafluoroethylene copolymer ETFE apolyimide PI and a polycarbonate resin PC . The layer s includes an electroconductive material such as carbon black so that the volume resistivity and surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt are controlled in a range of from 10to 10 cm and in a range of from 10to 10 respectively. If desired a release layer may be formed on the surface of the intermediate transfer belt .

Specific examples of the material for use in the release layer include but are not limited thereto fluorocarbon resins such as ethylene tetrafluoroethylene copolymers ETFE polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF perfluoroalkoxy fluorocarbon resins PEA tetrafluoroethylene hexafluoropropylene copolymers FEP and polyvinylidene fluoride PVF .

The intermediate transfer belt is typically prepared by a pour molding method or a centrifugal molding method and the surface of the intermediate transfer belt may be polished if desired. When the volume resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt is greater than the above mentioned range a higher transfer bias has to be applied thereto resulting in increase of the electric power consumption thereby increasing running costs of the image forming apparatus. In addition the potential of the intermediate transfer belt increases in the primary transfer process or the secondary transfer process in which a receiving material is released from the intermediate transfer belt. In this case a discharger has to be provided to discharge the residual charges of the intermediate transfer belt because it becomes difficult for the intermediate transfer belt to perform self discharging due to the high volume resistivity thereof.

When the volume resistivity and surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt are less than the respective ranges mentioned above good results such that the potential thereof decreases and the intermediate transfer belt easily performs self discharging can be produced. However when a transfer bias is applied to the intermediate transfer belt a current flows along the surface of the intermediate transfer belt thereby causing a toner image scattering problem in that a toner image is scattered in a transfer process. Therefore the volume resistivity and surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt are preferably controlled so as to fall in the respective ranges mentioned above.

The volume resistivity and surface resistivity of the intermediate transfer belt are measured with a high resistance meter HIGHRESTA IP from Mitsubishi Chemical Corp. using a probe HRS having an inner electrode having a diameter of 5.9 mm and a ring electrode having an inner diameter of 11 mm. When the volume resistivity of an intermediate transfer belt is measured using the high resistance meter a voltage of 100V is applied between the front surface inner electrode and the back surface back electrode of the intermediate transfer belt and the volume resistivity is determined on the basis of the current at a time 10 seconds after start of application of the voltage. When the surface resistivity is measured using the high resistance meter a voltage of 500V is applied between the inner electrode and the ring electrode which are contacted with the front surface of the intermediate transfer belt and the surface resistivity is determined on the basis of the current at a time 10 seconds after start of application of the voltage.

The cleaning blade which is made of a urethane rubber is pressed to the surface of the intermediate transfer belt to block residual toner particles with the blade resulting in cleaning of the surface of the intermediate transfer belt. In order to satisfactorily perform the cleaning operation it is preferable to scrape off a solid lubricant such as a fatty acid metal salt with the brush to apply the lubricant to the surface of the intermediate transfer belt . Suitable materials for use as the solid lubricant include fatty acid metal salts having a linear hydrocarbon structure. Specific examples of such fatty acid metal salts include zinc aluminum calcium magnesium and lithium salts of stearic acid palmitic acid myristic acid and oleic acid. The solid lubricant preferably includes one or more of the fatty acid metal salts.

Among such fatty acid metal salts zinc stearate is preferably used because zinc stearate is produced on a large scale while used as a lubricant for various applications and has low costs and good stability and reliability in quality. In this regard such commercially produced zinc stearate typically includes other fatty acid metal salts metal oxides and free fatty acids wherein the contents thereof change depending on the products.

The solid lubricant is applied little by little while having a power form. Specific examples of the method of applying the lubricant include a method in which a block of a lubricant is scraped off with a member such as brushes to apply the lubricant to the surface of the intermediate transfer belt and a method in which a lubricant is externally added to the toner used. However the second mentioned method has a drawback in that the entire surface of the intermediate transfer belt cannot be necessarily coated always with the lubricant and therefore the first mentioned method is preferably used.

In order that the solid lubricant is securely scraped off using the brush in this example the solid lubricant is pressed toward the brush by a pressing member by a force of from 1N to 4N. The width of the solid lubricant is greater than that of the maximum width of images to be formed on the intermediate transfer belt and is not less than 304 mm. In addition the width of the brush is greater than that of the solid lubricant so that the lubricant can be evenly scraped off.

In order to prevent vibration of the intermediate transfer belt caused by contact of the brush therewith the intermediate transfer belt is pressed by a pressure roller so as to be recessed at a depth of h as illustrated in while a counter roller is provided so as to be opposed to the brush. In this example the pressure roller is provided so as to contact the outer surface of the intermediate transfer belt but the same effect can be produced when the pressure roller is provided so as to contact the inner surface thereof.

A secondary transfer roller is arranged so as to be opposed to the driving roller and has configuration such that an elastic layer made of an elastic material such as polyurethane and including an electroconductive material so as to have a resistance of from 10to 10 is formed on a rod made of a metal such as SUS. When the resistance of the elastic layer is greater than 10 the secondary transfer bias current tends to be lower than the desired current and therefore a higher voltage has to be applied to the secondary transfer roller resulting in increase of the cost of the power source of the image forming apparatus. In addition when a high voltage is applied to the secondary transfer roller discharging tends to occur in a space in the vicinity of the secondary transfer nip formed by the intermediate transfer belt and the secondary transfer roller thereby forming a white spot image on a half tone toner image. By contrast when the resistance of the elastic layer is lower than 10 a toner image consisting of overlaid toner images for example a toner image in which two or three different color toner images are overlaid and a monochrome toner image cannot be satisfactorily transferred. The reason therefor is as follows. Since the resistance of the secondary transfer roller is low a sufficient amount of current flows when a monochrome toner image is transferred even when the secondary transfer bias is relatively low. However a higher secondary transfer bias has to be applied to the secondary transfer roller to transfer an overlaid toner image. Therefore when a relatively high secondary transfer bias is applied to the secondary transfer roller to transfer an overlaid toner image an excess transfer current flows through the monochrome toner image resulting in deterioration of transfer efficiency of the monochrome toner image.

The method for measuring the resistance of the secondary transfer roller is as follows. The secondary transfer roller is set on an electroconductive metal plate and a load of 4.9N is applied to each end portion of the metal shaft of the roller i.e. a load of 9.8N in total is applied to the roller . Next a voltage of 1 000V is applied between the metal shaft and the metal plate while measuring the current flowing therebetween. The resistance of the secondary transfer roller is calculated from the current and the applied voltage.

In addition a driving force is applied to the secondary transfer roller using a driving gear not shown so that the roller is rotated at substantially the same peripheral speed as that of the intermediate transfer belt .

The secondary transfer operation is performed while controlling the transfer current at a predetermined current. In this example the transfer current is 30 A.

When a full color image is formed in this image forming apparatus yellow magenta cyan and black color toner images formed on the respective photoreceptors Y M C and K are sequentially transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt which is rotated in the direction A resulting in formation of a combined color toner image in which the four color toner images are overlaid.

Meanwhile the receiving material is timely fed to the secondary transfer nip by feeding rollers and a pair of registration rollers now shown so that the combined color toner image on the intermediate transfer belt is transferred onto the predetermined position of the receiving material at the secondary transfer nip. The receiving material bearing the combined color toner image is fed to the fixing device along a guide so that the combined color toner image is fixed to the receiving material resulting in formation of a full color image. The receiving material bearing the full color image thereon is then discharged from the image forming apparatus by a discharging roller not shown .

The toners used for the image forming apparatus are polymerized toners prepared by a polymerization method. Each of the toners preferably has an average shape factor SF of from 100 to 180 and another average shape factor SF of from 100 to 180. are schematic views illustrating a toner particle for describing the way to determine the shape factors SF and SF of the toner particle.

The shape factor SF represents the roundness of a particle of toner and is expressed by the following equation 1 SF 1 MXLNG AREA 100 4 1 wherein MXLNG represents the maximum length of a projected image of a toner particle on a plane and AREA represents the area of the projected image.

When the toner particle is spherical the shape factor SF is 100. As the shape factor SF of toner increases the particle form of the toner is more differentiated from the spherical form. The average shape factor SF of a toner is determined by averaging the SF of multiple particles of the toner.

The shape factor SF represents the concavity and convexity of a particle of toner and is expressed by the following equation 2 SF 2 PERI AREA 100 4 1 wherein PERI represents the peripheral length of a projected image of a toner particle on a plane and AREA represents the area of the projected image.

When the toner particle is spherical the shape factor SF is 100. As the shape factor SF of toner increases the toner has a rougher surface. The average shape factor SF of a toner is determined by averaging the SF of multiple particles of the toner.

The average shape factors SF and SF can be determined by a scanning electron microscope SEM and an image analyzer. Specifically a microphotograph of a toner is taken using a SEM S 800 from Hitachi Ltd. and the photograph is analyzed using an image analyzer LUSEX3 from Noreco Corp. .

When the particle form of the toner becomes close to the spherical form i.e. the average shape factors SF and SF approach to 100 toner particles make point contact with each other and thereby the attraction between the toner particles is decreased resulting in increase of the fluidity of the toner. In addition the attraction between the toner particles and a photoreceptor decreases resulting in enhancement of the transfer rate of a toner image in the primary and secondary transfer processes. By contrast when one of the average shape factors SF and SF is greater than 180 the transfer rate of a toner image deteriorates and in addition toner particles remaining on the intermediate transfer belt cannot be easily removed i.e. the cleanability of the toner deteriorates .

The toner for use in the image forming apparatus of the present invention preferably has a volume average particle diameter of from 4 m to 10 m. When the volume average particle diameter is less than 4 m a background development problem in that background of images is soiled with toner particles tends to occur. In addition fluidity of the toner deteriorates and toner particles tend to aggregate thereby causing an omission problem in that a white spot is formed in a solid image. By contrast when the volume average particle diameter is greater than 10 m a toner scattering problem in that toner particles scatter around a developing device tends to be caused and high definition images cannot be formed. The volume average particle diameter of the toner used in this example is 6.5 m.

Among the primary transfer rollers Y M C and K the rollers Y M and C for transferring color images can be attached to or detached from the intermediate transfer belt by an attaching detaching member not shown so that the intermediate transfer belt can be attached to or detached from the photoreceptors Y M and C for forming Y M and C color images.

When an order to form a full color image is made for the image forming apparatus in the monochrome mode the primary transfer rollers Y M and C are attached to the intermediate transfer belt so that the intermediate transfer belt is contacted with the photoreceptors Y M and C while slightly wound around the photoreceptors. The primary transfer roller K is always attached to the intermediate transfer belt independently of attachment and detachment of the other primary transfer rollers Y M and C and therefore the intermediate transfer belt is always attached to the photoreceptor K in such a manner as to be slightly wound around the photoreceptor. Thus when the image forming apparatus is in the monochrome mode the path of the intermediate transfer belt is different from that when the image forming apparatus is in the full color mode. Therefore the position of the tension roller moves in the directions B when the mode of the image forming apparatus changes from the monochrome mode to the full color mode or vice versa.

In electrophotographic image forming apparatuses a toner image with a predetermined pattern i.e. a patch image is typically formed on a surface of an intermediate transfer belt which is a mark used for detecting the image density and or position of a toner image formed on the intermediate transfer belt to determine whether the image density and the position of the toner image are proper. If the image density and the position of the toner image are improper the image forming apparatus performs a control operation on the basis of the detection results.

Particularly when a reflection sensor which forms a light spot on a mark and which detects reflection light reflecting from the mark is used as the sensor the detection property of the sensor is greatly influenced by the distance between the light irradiating point light receiving point of the sensor and the mark formed on an intermediate transfer belt. Therefore such a reflection sensor is typically provided so as to face to a portion of the intermediate transfer belt which is hardly changed in position e.g. a portion of the intermediate transfer belt supported by a driving roller or a belt form maintaining member such as a plate. Recently there is a strong need for a small sized image forming apparatus. However there is no space in the vicinity of the driving roller for such a sensor because the secondary transfer roller and a guide for guiding a receiving material have to be provided in the vicinity of the driving roller when the intermediate transfer belt is supported by two rollers such as the driving roller and the tension roller . When a belt form maintaining member is provided on the backside of the intermediate transfer belt problems in that the belt is easily abraded by the member and toner images on the belt are scattered due to increase in load on the belt and physical or electrostatic friction between the belt and the member tend to occur. Therefore it is necessary to reduce the friction therebetween or to properly attach or detach the belt form maintaining member to or from the intermediate transfer belt. For these reasons it is preferable to provide a reflection sensor so as to face the tension roller . As illustrated in a toner image detection sensor for optically detecting a mark formed on the intermediate transfer belt is provided so as to face the tension roller and to extend in a direction parallel to the main scanning direction i.e. the width direction of the tension roller to correct the image density and position of a toner image. In this example the toner image detection sensor includes plural sensors each of which can detect a mark in a small range and which are provided side by side in the main scanning direction.

The operation of the toner image detection sensor is as follows. The toner image detection sensor irradiates a toner image serving as a mark hereinafter referred to as a correction pattern toner image formed on the surface of the intermediate transfer belt with light emitted by a LED of the sensor and receives light reflected from the correction pattern toner image to determine the density of the correction pattern toner image. The image forming apparatus determines the proper developing bias on the basis of the detected image density to prevent variation of the image density caused by deterioration of the photoreceptor and toner and change of environmental conditions.

In addition correction pattern color toner images which are formed on the surface of the intermediate transfer belt are detected by the respective toner image detection sensors to determine the positional differences therebetween. The image forming apparatus determines the proper laser beam irradiating timing and developing timing on the basis of the detected positional differences of the correction pattern color toner images to prevent formation of misaligned Y M C and K color toner images.

The support guide construction of the toner image detection sensor and the tension roller will be described by reference to .

Referring to each of the toner image sensors serving as a detector for detecting Y M C and K toner images is provided on a portion of a sensor plate extending in the main scanning direction parallel to the axis of the tension roller . The sensor plate has a pair of picks and which is a contact portion hereinafter sometimes referred to as a first contact portion and which is provided on a surface of each end portion of the plate in the main scanning direction wherein the surface of the plate faces the tension roller. The tips of the pair of picks and are contacted with a contact portion hereinafter sometimes referred to as a second contact portion of the tension roller which portion has the same axis as a rotation shaft of the tension roller. In this regard it is possible to consider a combination of the toner image sensor and the sensor plate supporting the toner image sensor as the detector.

A spring is provided so as to be located between another surface of the sensor plate and a surface of a fixed body of the image forming apparatus thereby biasing the sensor plate toward the tension roller . In addition the second contact portion of the tension roller is biased toward the sensor plate by a spring and a tension adjusting mechanism not shown .

When the toner image sensor and the tension roller have such a constitution the distance between the toner image sensor and the intermediate transfer belt supported by the tension roller can be always held constant.

A pair of parallel guide members and serving as a regulator is provided on the surface of each end portion of the fixed body in such a manner as to sandwich the rotation shaft of the tension roller to regulate movement of the tension roller in the vertical direction perpendicular to the moving directions B of the tension roller.

Further a positioning member is inserted into the pair of parallel guide members and thereby regulating movement of the sensor plate and the toner image detection sensor in the vertical direction. Therefore an optical axis X of the toner image sensor is controlled so as to be substantially the same as the moving directions B of the tension roller .

Therefore even when the position of the tension roller is changed in the directions B due to change of the mode of the image forming apparatus of from the monochrome mode to the full color mode or expansion and contraction of the intermediate transfer belt caused by change of environmental conditions the distance between the correction pattern toner images and the toner image sensor and the position of the light spot formed by light emitted by the toner image sensor are not changed thereby minimizing the detection error and preventing mis detection and mis correction.

Thus by providing the pair of guide members and the pair of picks and serving as the first contact portion and the second contact portion on each of the end portions of the sensor plate and the tension roller as mentioned above the tension roller and the sensor plate can be moved in the directions B without slanting and the distance between the correction pattern toner images and the toner image sensor can be held constant.

In this example the tip of the picks and serving as the first contact portion is rounded as illustrated in so as to make a point contact with the surface the second contact portion . When the picks and have such a rounded tip the friction between the picks and the second contact portion can be decreased. However the shape of the tip of the picks and is not limited thereto and the tip may have a flat surface. Alternatively the tip may have such a form as to be engaged with the surface of the second contact portion

The second contact portion is preferably a collar which can rotate independently of the rotation shaft of the tension roller . In this regard it is possible that even when the tension roller is rotated the second contact portion is not rotated thereby reducing friction between the picks and and the second contact portion resulting in enhancement of the durability of the detector having the picks and the tension roller. Namely the detection accuracy of the detector hardly deteriorates even after long repeated use.

Alternatively the second contact portion may be a shaft of the tension roller wherein the shaft is not rotated even when the tension roller is rotated unlike the rotation shaft . Since the shaft is not rotated there is little friction between the picks and and the shaft. In this regard since the tension roller has to be rotated together with the intermediate transfer belt a roller portion rotating portion has to be provided on the shaft. The roller portion may be made of a metal or an elastic material such as rubber and sponge.

In this example the detector is constituted of the toner image sensor the sensor plate supporting the toner image sensor the pair of picks and provided on each end portion of the sensor plate so as to extend toward the intermediate transfer belt and the springs serving as a biasing member and located between the body and the sensor plate . Plural for example three toner image sensors are provided as the toner image sensor but only one toner image sensor can be used as the toner image sensor .

Next another example of the support guide construction of the toner image sensor and the tension roller will be described by reference to . In this regard the members illustrated in have the same reference numbers in and description of the members are omitted here.

In this example a pair of guide members and for slidably guiding the shaft of the tension roller is provided on a side plate of a transfer unit. A pick is provided on each end portion of a sensor plate on which the toner image sensor is provided so that the tip of the pick is contacted with the surface of the shaft of the tension roller . In addition a spring is provided on each end portion of the sensor plate so as to be located between the backside of the sensor plate and the body to press the pick toward the shaft

A collar which corresponds to the collar is provided on each end portion of the tension roller so as to be rotatable relative to the shaft of the tension roller. The spring of a tension adjusting mechanism not shown is contacted with the collar to press the tension roller toward the body .

In this example since the pick strikes the shaft serving as the second contact portion the toner image sensor provided on the sensor plate is positioned with precision. In the toner image sensor is not illustrated because of being hidden by the pick

The pair of guide members and serving as a regulator slidably guides the shaft of the tension roller and the pick . Therefore the pair of guide members and regulates movement of the tension roller and the sensor plate in the direction i.e. vertical direction perpendicular to the moving directions B of the tension roller.

Therefore the optical axis X of the toner image sensor provided on the sensor plate is controlled so as to be substantially the same as the moving direction of the tension roller . Therefore even when the position of the tension roller is changed in the moving directions B thereof the distance between the correction pattern toner images and the toner image sensor and the position of the light spot formed by light emitted by the sensor are not changed thereby minimizing the detection error and preventing mis detection and mis correction.

In this example the toner image detector is constituted of the toner image sensor not illustrated in the sensor plate supporting the sensor the pick provided on each end portion of the sensor plate so as to extend toward the intermediate transfer belt and the spring serving as a biasing member and located between the body and the sensor plate.

It is also possible for the tension roller of this example to have configuration such that the shaft is a fixed shaft and a roller portion is rotated around the shaft. In this case the shaft is not rotated even when the tension roller roller portion is rotated and therefore friction between the pick and the shaft serving as the second contact portion can be dramatically reduced.

In the examples mentioned above since the same guiding member is used for regulating movement of the tension roller and the toner image sensor variation of position of the toner image sensor relative to the tension roller can be reduced. Therefore information on a toner image formed on the intermediate transfer belt can be precisely detected thereby making it possible to reliably perform image density correction and position variation correction.

Hereinbefore preferable examples have been described. However the present invention is not limited thereto and modifications and variations of the examples are possible. It is needless to say that such modified versions are also included in the present invention.

For example the present invention can also be applied to a direct transfer belt which feeds a receiving material on which toner images formed on one or more image bearing members are directly transferred instead of the intermediate transfer belt mentioned above.

In addition the above mentioned mechanism for attaching and detaching the transfer belt to and from plural image bearing members may be a mechanism for attaching and detaching the transfer belt to and from only one image bearing member.

Further the present invention is not limited to color image forming apparatuses and can also be used for monochrome image forming apparatuses having a transfer belt.

Furthermore the detector is not limited to an optical sensor for optically detecting a toner image and may be an optical sensor for detecting a timing mark or a home position mark formed on a transfer belt.

Additional modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

This document claims priority and contains subject matter related to Japanese Patent Application No. 2010 042991 filed on Feb. 26 2010 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

