---

title: Cloud based master data management
abstract: A cloud based service provides Master Data Management (MDM) services to clients. A client may create/modify MDM workflows that are hosted by the cloud based service to assist in meeting their needs. An interface is provided at points within the workflow that is hosted by the cloud based service. The cloud based service utilizes a flexible pipeline that executes predefined configurable blocks. A user can create or customize an existing workflow based on the predefined set of blocks (e.g. execution blocks, conditional blocks, loop blocks). The blocks are configured to receive, process and send information relating to the master data according to a predefined schema. Clients may publish master data changes and/or subscribe to master data changes made by other clients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09128768&OS=09128768&RS=09128768
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LCC
number: 09128768
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110127
---
Many Master Data Management MDM services help enterprises standardize the data people rely on to make critical business decisions. Using MDM Services organizations attempt to manage critical data assets companywide and across diverse systems in an attempt to enable more people to securely manage master data directly and to ensure the integrity of information over time. Each enterprise maintains their own MDM service which can be a complex undertaking.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A cloud based service provides Master Data Management MDM services to clients. A client may create modify MDM workflows that are hosted by the cloud based service to assist in meeting their needs. An interface is provided at points within the workflow that is hosted by the cloud based service. The cloud based service utilizes a flexible pipeline that executes predefined configurable blocks. A user can create or customize an existing workflow based on the predefined set of blocks e.g. execution blocks conditional blocks loop blocks . The blocks are configured to receive process and send information relating to the master data according to a predefined schema. Clients may publish master data changes and or subscribe to master data changes made by other clients.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements various embodiment will be described. In particular and the corresponding discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which embodiments may be implemented.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Other computer system configurations may also be used including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Distributed computing environments may also be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to an illustrative computer environment for a computer utilized in the various embodiments will be described. The computer environment shown in includes computing devices that each may be configured as a server a desktop or mobile computer or some other type of computing device and includes a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the central processing unit CPU .

A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computer further includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system data MDS application Web browser and other program modules .

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive the computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer .

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer .

Computer operates in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the Internet. The computer may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . The network connection may be wireless and or wired. The network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown in . Similarly an input output controller may provide input output to an IP phone a display screen a printer or other type of input output device.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computer including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a computer such as the WINDOWS 7 or WINDOWS SERVER operating system from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store one or more application programs including MDS application Web browser and program modules . According to an embodiment the MDS application is a MICROSOFT CORPORATION application. Other ERP MDS applications that interact with master data may also be used.

Master data may be many types of data. Generally master data are the critical nouns of a business and fall generally into four groupings people things places and concepts. Further categorizations within those groupings are called subject areas domain areas or entity types. For example within people there are customer employee and salesperson. Within things there are product part store and asset. Within concepts there are things like contract warrantee and licenses. Finally within places there are office locations and geographic divisions. Some of these domain areas may be further divided. Customer may be further segmented based on incentives and history. A company may have normal customers as well as premiere and executive customers. Product may be further segmented by sector and industry. The requirements life cycle and CRUD created read updated deleted and searched cycle for a product in the Consumer Packaged Goods CPG sector is likely very different from those of the clothing industry. The granularity of domains is essentially determined by the magnitude of differences between the attributes of the entities within them.

Master data can be described by the way that it interacts with other data. For example in transaction systems master data is generally involved with transactional data. A customer buys a product. A vendor sells a part and a partner delivers a crate of materials to a location. An employee is hierarchically related to their manager who reports up through a manager another employee . A product may be a part of multiple hierarchies describing their placement within a store. This relationship between master data and transactional data may be fundamentally viewed as a noun verb relationship. Transactional data capture the verbs such as sale delivery purchase email and revocation master data are the nouns. This is the same relationship data warehouse facts and dimensions share.

As cardinality the number of elements in a set decreases the likelihood of an element being treated as a master data element even a commonly accepted subject area such as customer decreases. For example if a company has only three customers most likely they would not consider those customers master data at least not in the context of supporting them with a master data management solution simply because there is no benefit to managing those customers with a master data infrastructure. Yet a company with thousands of customers would consider Customer an important subject area because of the concomitant issues and benefits around managing such a large set of entities. The customer value to each of these companies is the same. Both rely upon their customers for business. One needs a customer master data solution the other does not. Cardinality does not change the classification of a given entity type however the importance of having a solution for managing an entity type increases as the cardinality of the entity type increases.

Master data tends to be less volatile than transactional data. As it becomes more volatile it typically is considered more transactional. For example some might consider contract a master data element. Others might consider it a transaction. Depending on the lifespan of a contract it can go either way. An agency promoting professional athletes might consider their contracts as master data. Each is different from the other and typically has a lifetime of greater than a year. It may be tempting to simply have one master data item called athlete. However athletes tend to have more than one contract at any given time one with their teams and others with companies for endorsing products. The agency would need to manage all those contracts over time as elements of the contract are renegotiated or athletes traded. Other contracts for example contracts for detailing cars or painting a house are more like a transaction. They are one time short lived agreements to provide services for payment and are typically fulfilled and destroyed within hours.

Simple entities even valuable entities are rarely a challenge to manage and are rarely considered master data elements. The less complex an element the less likely the need to manage change for that element. Typically such assets are simply collected and tallied. For example Fort Knox likely would not track information on each individual gold bar stored there but rather only keep a count of them. The value of each gold bar is substantial the cardinality high and the lifespan long yet the complexity is low.

The more valuable the data element is to the company the more likely it will be considered a master data element. Value and complexity work together.

While master data is typically less volatile than transactional data entities with attributes that do not change at all typically not classified as master data. For example rare coins would seem to meet many of the criteria for a master data treatment. A rare coin collector would likely have many rare coins. So cardinality is high. They are valuable. They are also complex. For example rare coins have a history and description. There are attributes such as condition of obverse reverse legend inscription rim and field. There are other attributes such as designer initials edge design layers and portrait.

Yet rare coins do not need to be managed as a master data item because they don t change over time or at least they don t change enough. There may need to be more information added as the history of a particular coin is revealed or if certain attributes must be corrected. But generally speaking rare coins would not be managed through a master data management system because they are not volatile enough to warrant a solution.

One of the drivers of master data management is reuse. For example in a simple world the CRM system would manage everything about a customer and not need to share any information about the customer with other systems. However in today s complex environments customer information needs to be shared across multiple applications. That s where the trouble begins. Because for a number of reasons access to a master datum is not always available people start storing master data in various locations such as spreadsheets and application private stores. There are still reasons such as data quality degradation and decay to manage master data that is not reused across the enterprise. However if a master data entity is reused in multiple systems it s a sure bet that it should be managed with a master data management system.

While it is simple to enumerate the various master data entity types it is sometimes more challenging to decide which data items in a company should be treated as master data. Often data that does not normally comply with the definition for master data may need to be managed as such and data that does comply with the definition may not. Ultimately when deciding on what entity types should be treated as master data it is better to categorize them in terms of their behavior and attributes within the context of the business needs than to rely on simple lists of entity types.

A client application such as MDS application or web browser is configured to interact with workflows such as workflows hosted by MDM service that is used to interact with master data such as master data and or master data that is stored in a network data store. Cloud based MDS service may host all portion of MDM services for a client. For example a client may integrate a local MDM service with functionality provided by MDM service or manage all of their master data needs using MDM service .

A secure connection is created between the client computing device and MDM cloud based service . For example master data services MDS client application and or web browser may be used to interact with master data and workflows that is hosed by MDM service . A client such as client may modify MDM workflows that are hosted by the MDM cloud based service to assist in meeting their needs. The workflows are arranged in a flexible pipeline that executes predefined configurable blocks. A client may connect to MDM cloud based service and can create customize an existing workflow based on the predefined set of blocks e.g. execution blocks conditional blocks loop blocks . The blocks are configured to receive process and send information relating to the master data according to a predefined schema. A client may also publish master data that may be consumed by other clients. A client may also subscribe to changes to master data such that the client is notified when master data changes. More description is provided below.

The computing devices may be configured in different ways. For example some of the computing devices may be mobile computing devices e.g. cellular phones tablets smart phones laptops and the like desktop computing devices and servers. MDM service is configured to provide an online cloud based service e.g. an ERP MDS service for interacting with master data that allows clients to interact with workflows that relate to MDM and to publish subscribe to master data. Some computing devices may be arranged as data shares some may be arranged in local networks some may be arranged in networks accessible through the Internet and the like.

The computing devices are coupled through network . Network may be many different types of networks. For example network may be an IP network a carrier network for cellular communications and the like. Generally network is used to transmit data between computing devices such as computing device computing device network share and network service .

Computing device includes MDS application and user interface . As illustrated computing device is used by a user to interact with master data such as master data stored within ERP server and master data stored with MDM service in network share . Master data may be stored in many different locations. For example one or more data stores may be used to store master data relating to ERP system .

User interface UI is used to interact with an application such as MDS application and MDS web application . For example UI may be used to create modify a workflow that is hosted by MDM cloud based service .

Computing device includes one or more applications such as web browser that may be configured to view enter interact with master data that is published to network service . For example web browser may be used to access a server such as server within MDM cloud based network service that provides master data services. Computing device may be used to create modify workflows that are hosted by MDM cloud based service .

MDM cloud based service includes server and network share . Server comprises MDM web application that comprises web renderer . Web application is configured for receiving and responding to requests relating to master data services. For example server may access master data or other data stored on network share . Web application is operative to provide an interface to a user of a computing device such as a mobile computing device or some other computing device e.g. computing device computing device to interact with master data workflows via network .

MDM service receives requests from computing devices such computing device to perform operations relating to master data. For example the client may make a change to a master data item create modify a workflow and or request information concerning master data. A client application such as MDS application interacts with the master data and workflows that are hosted by MDM service .

As discussed MDM cloud based service is configured to provide master data management services for clients. The clients may be associated with different organizations and companies. For example MDM service may be configured to provide MDM services for thousands of different companies. MDM cloud based service may also be used to manage multi site deployments for an organization. MDM service is directed at providing a configurable out of the box solution for master data management solutions. According to an embodiment the MDM cloud based service is configured to integrate with different client MDS applications such as MDS application .

Workflows are hosted by the MDM cloud based service to assist a client in meeting their MDM needs. The workflows are arranged in a flexible pipeline that executes predefined configurable blocks. A client may connect to MDM cloud based service from a variety of computing devices locations and can create customize an existing MDM workflow based on the predefined set of blocks e.g. execution blocks conditional blocks loop blocks . The blocks are configured to receive process and send information relating to the master data according to a predefined schema. For example client computing device may publish master data using MDM cloud based service that is subscribed to by other computing devices systems.

An application programming interface API is used by a client to interact with one or more workflows . The API is used to interact with the blocks comprising the workflow. The customizable workflows allow a user to provide a centralized workflow that has an input and an output and may transform the data to from a variety of formats including user defined formats. For example one ERP service may use data in a first format whereas another client within the MDM system consumes data in a second formation.

Clients may also subscribe to and publish master data using different applications versions systems. MDM cloud based service may be connected to a variety of different systems as well as being connected to different versions of the master data systems. For example ERP system may publish subscribe to master data that is consumable by one or more other parts of the system.

When master data is modified a client such as computing device workflow transforms the message at block runs business rules at block validates the changes at block transforms the data at block and propagates the data changes to subscribers such as computing device to help ensure data consistency between the different systems.

The workflows are arranged in a flexible pipeline that executes predefined configurable blocks. A client may connect to MDM cloud based service from a variety of computing devices locations and can create customize an existing MDM workflow based on the predefined set of blocks e.g. execution blocks conditional blocks loop blocks . The blocks are configured to receive process and send information relating to the master data according to a predefined schema.

According to an embodiment the workflow comprise different types of blocks including zero or more execution blocks conditional blocks and loop blocks. Executions blocks comprise any type of action i.e. business rule or message schema transformation . Conditional blocks include the use of conditional statements that are applied to the workflow i.e. if else statements . Loop blocks are used to model loops within a workflow. A client may use an API to create modify the different blocks. The workflows may relate to an execution service and or a predicate service. An execution service is a service that can process a message and pass it to the next block in the workflow. A predicate service can return true or false depending on received message and is generally used to customize conditional and loop blocks. According to an embodiment a default set of predefined models business rules and workflows may be used by one or more clients.

The administration portal allows users to manage their master data using master data like modeling capabilities CRUD operation conflicts resolution and the like. For example a user may create modify a workflow. Storage is used to store master data workflows and other information relating to the management of master data. For example storage may be used to store tables queues and the like. Clients use public API to publish master data invoke one or more workflows and or subscribe to changes to master data.

Referring now to an illustrative process for cloud based Master Data Management will be described. When reading the discussion of the routines presented herein it should be appreciated that the logical operations of various embodiments are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements of the computing system implementing the invention. Accordingly the logical operations illustrated and making up the embodiments described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof.

After a start block process moves to operation where a message is received from a client that is related to master data management. The message includes a desired operation to perform using the MDM cloud based service. The operation may be a change to master data and or a change to a workflow and or a subscribe request. For example a user may send a proposed change to master data to the cloud based MDM service. A user may also create modify a workflow using the API. A user may also request to subscribe to one or more master data items.

Moving to operation the workflow relating to the operation in the message is accessed. For example each client may have its own workflow. A client may also be associated with more than one workflow. The message may include an identifier that is used to access the workflow. The MDM service may also store information relating to what workflow s to access in response to receiving a message from a client.

Flowing to operation a determination is made as to when the operation is valid. For example a proposed change to master data may be subject to different restrictions before the change is determined to be valid. Similarly a change to a workflow may have restrictions to satisfy.

Transitioning to operation the operation relating to the message is performed when determined to be valid. For example a change to a master data item may be stored a change to a workflow may be stored a subscription request may be stored and the like.

Moving to operation the client s are notified of the performed operation. For example one or more clients that are subscribed to receive notifications of when the master data item is changed may be notified. A confirmation notification may be sent to a user in response to a successful change to the workflow and or subscription request.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

