---

title: System and methods for cross platform interactive electronic books
abstract: Disclosed in some examples is a system for electronic learning support, the system having a content-ingestion module to generate a. digital specification in a first language from a set of input parameters for one or more of a plurality of digital templates, the digital specification including instructions which when executed by an execution environment of an electronic reading device, cause the electronic reading device to present one or more interactive content presentation objects and one or more interactive assessment objects, the execution environment being one of a plurality of execution environments, each execution environment being specific to one of a plurality of heterogeneous electronic reading devices; a digital specification delivery module executed by the one or more processors to transmit the digital specification to the electronic reading device; and an interaction module to: receive content interaction data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive content presentation objects from the execution environment and to send at least a subset of the content interaction data to at least one other electronic reading device, and to receive assessment data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive assessment objects from the execution environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09632985&OS=09632985&RS=09632985
owner: INKLING SYSTEMS, INC.
number: 09632985
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110201
---
This patent application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. Section 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 300 319 to Charles M. MacInnis entitled Apparatus and Methods for Digital Interactive Educational Content filed on Feb. 1 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings that form a part of this document Copyright Standard Nine Inc. d.b.a. Inkling All Rights Reserved.

As the use of personal computing devices to read and view content becomes more commonplace there is a growing need to provide consumers with rich interactive content including learning content. The current generation of electronic reading technology remains relatively limited in its ability to dynamically manipulate and modify the content and its presentation to the user in accordance with the individual user s preferences and needs.

Current electronic reading technology often follows too closely to the traditional constraints of paper based content. That is current electronic books tend to be just digital reproductions of the paper based content static text and static images. These limitations may not be as pronounced when the electronic media content is a typical popular book such as a novel since those works are normally intended to be read in linear fashion start to finish however for more complex media content such as educational material this presentation format provides few advantages over traditional paper based textbooks.

Some interactive textbooks that have been proposed use specialized electronic book reading systems using a dedicated hardware platform to support digital books written in a proprietary compatible format for that platform. This approach however fails to leverage the increasing market penetration of more generalized mainstream electronic book readers e.g. iPad Nook Kindle laptop computers mobile phones desktop computers etc .

Disclosed in some examples is a system for electronic learning support including a content ingestion module to generate a digital specification in a first language from a set of input parameters for one or more of a plurality of digital templates the digital specification including instructions which when executed by an execution environment of an electronic reading device cause the electronic reading device to present one or more interactive content presentation objects and one or more interactive assessment objects the execution environment being one of a plurality of execution environments each execution environment being specific to one of a plurality of heterogeneous electronic reading devices a digital specification delivery module executed by the one or more processors to transmit the digital specification to the electronic reading device and an interaction module to receive content interaction data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive content presentation objects from the execution environment and to send at least a subset of the content interaction data to at least one other electronic reading device and to receive assessment data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive assessment objects from the execution environment.

Disclosed in another example is a method for electronic learning support by generating a digital specification in a first language from a set of input parameters for one or more of a plurality of digital templates the digital specification including instructions which when executed by an execution environment of an electronic reading device cause the electronic reading device to present one or more interactive content presentation objects and one or more interactive assessment objects the execution environment being one of a plurality of execution environments each execution environment being specific to one of a plurality of heterogeneous electronic reading devices transmitting the digital specification to the electronic reading device using a computer processor receiving content interaction data corresponding to the user interactions with the interactive content presentation objects from the execution environment and sending at least a subset of the content interaction data to at least one other electronic reading device and receiving assessment data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive assessment objects from the execution environment.

In yet other examples disclosed is a machine readable medium that stores instructions which when performed by a machine causes the machine to perform operations of generating a digital specification in a first language from a set of input parameters for one or more of a plurality of digital templates the digital specification including instructions which when executed by an execution environment of an electronic reading device cause the electronic reading device to present one or more interactive content presentation objects and one or more interactive assessment objects the execution environment being one of a plurality of execution environments each execution environment being specific to one of a plurality of heterogeneous electronic reading devices transmitting the digital specification to the electronic reading device receiving content interaction data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive content presentation objects from the execution environment sending at least a subset of the content interaction data to at least one other electronic reading device and receiving assessment data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive assessment objects from the execution environment.

In another example disclosed is a method for electronic learning by retrieving a digital specification in a first language parsing the digital specification and responsive to instructions contained in the digital specification presenting one or more interactive content presentation objects and one or more interactive assessment objects by converting the instructions in the digital specification to a second language which is executed by one or more computer processors receiving content interaction data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive content presentation objects and sending the interaction data to an interaction server receiving a second content interaction data corresponding to a second user s interactions with the interactive content presentation objects from the interaction server presenting the second content interaction data and sending to the interaction server assessment data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive assessment objects.

In yet other examples disclosed is a system for electronic learning including an input module to receive a digital specification in a first language a presentation module with one or more computer processors to parse the digital specification and responsive to instructions contained in the digital specification present one or more interactive content presentation objects and one or more interactive assessment objects by converting the instructions in the digital specification to a second language which is executed by one or more computer processors an interaction module to receive content interaction data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive content presentation objects and to send the interaction to an interaction server receive a second content interaction data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive content presentation objects from the interaction server and presenting the second digital interaction and send assessment data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive assessment objects from the execution environment.

In yet other examples disclosed is a machine readable medium that stores instructions which when performed by a machine causes the machine to perform operations of retrieving a digital specification in a first language parsing the digital specification and responsive to instructions contained in the digital specification presenting one or more interactive content presentation objects and one or more interactive assessment objects by converting the instructions in the digital specification to a second language which is executable by the one or more computer processors receiving content interaction data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive content presentation objects and sending the interaction to an interaction server receiving a second content interaction data corresponding to a second user s interactions with the interactive content presentation objects from the interaction server presenting the second digital interaction and sending to the interaction server assessment data corresponding to user interactions with the interactive assessment objects.

These examples may be combined in any permutation or combination. This overview is intended to provide an overview of subject matter of the present patent application. It is not intended to provide an exclusive or exhaustive explanation of the invention. The detailed description is included to provide further information about the present patent application.

In the drawings which are not necessarily drawn to scale like numerals may describe similar components in different views. Like numerals having different letter suffixes may represent different instances of similar components. The drawings illustrate generally by way of example but not by way of limitation various embodiments discussed in the present document.

Disclosed is a creation delivery and presentation system and method for cross platform interactive electronic books. The interactive electronic books may consist of one or more interactive content presentation objects and one or more interactive assessment objects and are created by content authors using templates and input parameters which are converted by the system s content ingestion processes to a platform independent digital specification of the electronic book. This platform independent digital specification along with the various electronic media therein is then made available to users who then execute the platform independent digital specification in an execution environment on an electronic reader. The execution environment presents the electronic book or part of the electronic book to the user by utilizing the instructions in the platform independent digital specification. The platform independent digital specification instructs the execution environment on the proper placement of the various media objects and the proper responses upon user interactions with the media. During the presentation of the electronic book the various pieces of the electronic book allow for various user interactions some of which may be social in nature and allow for users to communicate with other users of the electronic book. The system and method includes in some examples publishing tools content transformation or ingestion tools distribution tools the execution environments and interaction tools.

The present disclosure describes certain operations with respect to electronic books. These operations are equally applicable to other types of media including electronic pamphlets magazines study aids practice questions or the like as well as electronic books. It should also be appreciated that those operations are equally applicable to portions of those materials.

The interaction service receives content from content creators and transforms the content in the content ingestion processes to a platform independent digital specification. In some examples the content may be an electronic book. This representation is then placed in storage where users running an execution environment on the reader devices may download or otherwise access this content. The electronic reader devices present the content to the users of the electronic reader devices. Users may then interact with the content on the electronic reader devices and also with other users of the content through social networking applications running in the interaction service .

In some examples an electronic book contains at least one interactive content presentation object and in some other examples contains at least one interactive assessment objects and in other examples contains both. An interactive content presentation object is any information and or experiences presented by the electronic reader to an end user and allows for user interaction. In some examples an interactive content presentation object presents text graphics figures graphical models video audio audio video or the like to a user and in some examples allows for user interaction. An interactive assessment object is any information and or experiences presented by the electronic reader to an end user to assess their knowledge e.g. of or about content provided as part of an interactive content presentation object . In some examples an interactive assessment object is an object that when presented by an electronic reader presents a question or series of questions along with audio video audio video text graphics and or the like to test a user s knowledge of a part of the book or other content. Types of interactive assessments include but are not limited to multiple choice matching reordering audio based assessments and the like.

User interactions may be any user action that acts on with or about the interactive content presentation objects or interactive assessment objects. User interactions may include in some examples user bookmarks of certain locations in the book user comments notes or questions left in a certain point of the book user highlighting of the book user quoting of the book user manipulation of the various interactive elements of the interactive content presentation or assessment objects such as zooming panning and rotating graphics and the like. In some examples the interactivity may be social so that other users viewing the interactive content presentation object may see at least a portion of another user s interactions. Thus for example a user may leave a note or question that some or all of the individuals also viewing that content presentation may see read answer or react to. In other examples the user may leave a note to an instructor who may respond. In still other examples an individual may share a bookmark indicating the current user s reading location to other users.

In some embodiments an electronic book may be represented in a platform independent way which is then executed by execution environments on various heterogeneous devices to produce a visually consistent presentation of the interactive content presentation objects and in some examples interactive assessment objects. The interactive content presentation and assessment objects are presented using locally available application programming interfaces such that the user interface style matches that of the device. Thus for example when the book is executed on a WINDOWS device it will appear to match the WINDOWS style but on an IOS device such as an IPAD will match the IOS look and feel. WINDOWS is an operating system developed by MICROSOFT Inc. of Redmond Wash. IOS is a different operating system developed by APPLE Inc. of Cupertino Calif.

The electronic books and the constituent presentation objects may be created by content authors using digital content templates. Content templates or blueprints consist of a number of standardized content presentation formats or shells which authors use as a basis for producing the various interactive content presentation objects. In some examples only content presentation objects created with a content blueprint will be valid content recognized by the execution environment. This may be to ensure that the content is properly handled recognized and displayed by the various execution environments running on the different types of electronic readers. In some examples the blueprint may be an extensible markup language XML file a hypertext markup language HTML file or the like. Once a blueprint is instantiated it may be called a media card. An example abstraction of a media card is shown in which shows one or more text sections and one or more image sections along with header sections and image caption arranged in a desired order.

In some examples while the various blueprints are described in a platform agnostic manner the various media cards formed from those blueprints may be displayed differently depending on the electronic reader platform. This is because different devices may have different capabilities. For example an IPHONE may not be able to display the same image resolution as an IPAD . Therefore in some examples the image video audio or other media may be adjusted depending on the device capabilities. Device capabilities that may impact the presentation layout may include screen size screen resolution video capabilities audio capabilities and the like. As a result of these differences the layout of the card may be impacted. Therefore in some examples the blueprints and associated media such as images may be processed in the interaction service such that even if the two different reader devices have different capabilities for example the image capabilities of the two devices are different the blueprints and the associated media objects are adjusted for that platform to display everything in a visually consistent manner that is platform appropriate. Thus for example the images the interactions the layouts and the like are displayed in the right locations in a platform appropriate manner and according to the capabilities of the device. The platform appropriate manner referring to the look and feel of the user interface elements of the reader. Thus the electronic book will have an IOS look and feel on an IPAD but a WINDOWS look and feel on a WINDOWS device. Thus for example even though an image may be in a different place with different resolutions the interactions with that image and the layout appear consistent e.g. in the correct places and in a user friendly manner.

The interaction system may be aware of the characteristics of a given target device such as its display size the pixel density of the display its aspect ratio whether it supports touch based input how much memory is available to the application and other characteristics. The system may pre process data for a given target device. For example for low resolution displays or for systems with limited amounts of runtime memory available to the application lower resolution versions of the data may be sent to the device. Furthermore if a device lacks touch based input support a mouse and keyboard based interface may be presented to the user. If devices have high density pixel displays such as APPLE Inc s Retina Display images and icons can be displayed at a higher resolution than devices that lack such pixel density. The system may make modifications to the data before sending to the device or the device may interpret the data differently at runtime. In both cases the platform independent representation of the interactive data being displayed is the same.

Some example content blueprints may include a table of contents blueprint for displaying the electronic book s table of contents a reader blueprint for text and graphics a image figure blueprint a multi image figure or slideshow blueprint a guided tour blueprint a test yourself blueprint a sideline blueprint video blueprint glossary blueprints and assessment blueprints. Blueprints may contain links to other media files such as images videos audio and the like to complete the presentation.

The table of contents blueprint of an electronic book represents the organization of the overall title and describes how the rest of the media cards in the title are structured. In some examples this may take the form of a tree structure with the table of contents card being the root node. In some examples the other media cards may be organized into chapters and all chapters may be organized into units and so on. Each chapter may consist of primary cards generally reading cards that correspond with sections from the main text and embedded cards image figures and other reading cards that are linked to from the primary cards . Embedded cards may be included as children of the parent card in the table of contents card. Other linear and non linear structures may be represented depending on the application. The table of contents blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the various included media and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the media capabilities of two different devices are different the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the layout is correct across both devices.

Cards created from the blueprints may contain one or more links to other cards and other content including other reader cards other image figure cards etc . . . . In some examples the electronic book does not need to be linearly organized into the traditional book concepts of chapter section page etc. . . . . In some examples other links take users to a glossary more in depth coverage of a topic or manipulable images which allow a user to zoom rotate or pan. In some examples the table of contents contains links to all other cards in the book.

The reader blueprint in some examples may include different objects including text figures images key term clouds or tables inline glossary terms headers Hgroups articles and review objects and the like. Some figures appear interspersed with the text around it or to one side with an optional caption. An example of which is shown in . Some figures may break apart the text column an example of which is shown in . An image may or may not be captioned. A key term cloud is a group of buttons placed on the page with key terms listed as the button text. Selecting the button pops up a definition of the key term or links to another card where the term is defined. An example key term cloud is shown in . A key term table is similar to a key term cloud except the buttons are presented in a table format an example of which is shown in . In some examples the key term cloud and the key term table may contain both a pop up definition and a link to the card where the key term is defined in more detail thus a user may select either the pop up definition or the link. In still other examples the definition bubble popped up by the pop up includes a further link which when selected by the user takes the user to a card with more information on the term. An inline glossary produces selectable images or text which when selected pop a bubble on the screen with more information. These may be either hyperlinks or some other means of attracting a viewer s attention to this feature associated with the word on the words themselves in the sentences in which they are used or on the same page below the text or image. Headers are specially formatted content that is title specific an example is shown in . An Hgroup is an element that may be used to group the headers an example of which is shown in . An article defines external content. In some examples they include external hyperlinks that may be a news article from an external provider or text from a web log blog or a text from a forum or any other content from an external source. One example of an article is shown in . Review answer elements present a question to allow the user to test him or herself. The correct answer is clickably revealed. One example review answer is shown in . The reader blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the various included media and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the media capabilities of two different devices are different the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the layout is correct across both devices.

The image blueprint displays a photograph or illustration with an optional scrollable caption. In some examples captions may also be initially hidden in order to allow the image to fill the entire screen but revealed in response to some user interaction with the image. In some examples the image blueprint offers zoom pan and rotation capabilities. In some examples image blueprints may be enhanced with poptip annotations anchored at any point on the image. A poptip is a context sensitive annotation of content that when selected presents additional content related to the image or other content in a container overlaid over a portion of the content. show an example of an image blueprint with a pop tip annotation that is closed. Responsive to a user tapping or clicking on the poptip bubble which is pointing to an area on image the bubble expands to include additional information . Additional information may include text graphics pictures audio audio visual or any other interactive content presentation or assessment objects. The image blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the image and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the images on two different devices are of different sizes the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the pop tip is displayed in the right location and the layout of the text and other elements around and near the image is correct.

The slideshow blueprint presents a series of images in independent displays with a master caption for the entire slideshow and sub caption for each individual image. For each slide the slideshow blueprint offers all features of the full screen image with annotations. The user may swipe or page through the images and still have access at all times to the master caption. The slideshow blueprint in some examples has a navigation bar and in some examples the navigation bar comprises a series of thumbnail images of the various images in the slideshow. show examples of two successive slideshow images and . Navigation bar shows thumbnail images of the various images in the slideshow with an indicator showing the present position in the slideshow. Master caption describes the slideshow title bar shows the title of the slideshow and subcaption provides an individualized caption for each image in the slideshow. The slideshow blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the image and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the images on two different devices are of different sizes the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the images navigation bar thumbnails master caption title subcaptions and the like are displayed in the right locations and in a manner appropriate to the device.

The test yourself blueprint is a blueprint with two images. The images are generally annotated images with leader lines from various points in the image to text describing that part of the image. When the card loads the text is not displayed and users may test themselves by guessing what the various pieces of the image describe. In some examples the text is replaced with a poptip. illustrate images and with leader lines leading to various points of interest on the image. The second view allows a user to test his or her knowledge by hiding the text descriptions for example with poptips for example . A user can mentally guess the answer then select the poptip to check whether they were correct or not. The test yourself blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the image and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the images on two different devices are of different sizes the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the pop tips are displayed in the right location and the layout of the text and other elements around and near the image is correct.

A guided tour blueprint is a convenient way of describing a complex diagram with numerous steps or complicated concepts. This blueprint displays a single large image and steps the user through various points in the image zooming to a specific region of the image and automatically displaying annotations as the image is navigated. In some examples poptips may be displayed. One example guided tour is shown in . Image is shown with various steps in the FIG. . In some examples steps may be poptips. Stepping to step zooms the image toward step and expands the poptip of that step . As show in stepping to step zooms the image toward step and expands step s poptip. Advancing or stepping to step zooms the image toward that step and expands that steps pop tip and so on. The guided tour blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the media and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the images on two different devices are of different sizes the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the region of interest is always included in what is rendered for the user and the layout of the text and other elements around and near the image is correct regardless of the shape size of their display.

The SLIDE LINE blueprint is used to present a series of static images that relate to each other along some kind of one dimensional scale. Each image is represented on the scale as a keyframe in some examples a white dot . You may see their position on the scale and either tap on them or swipe along the slider bar to advance to the next position. illustrate an example slide line blueprint. Image is represented along a scale as keyframe while image is displayed as keyframe . In some examples a user advances from the image of 15 to 16 by gliding their finger across the scale . In other examples the user may press a particular keyframe to advance. The slide line blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the media and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the images on two different devices are of different sizes the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the region of interest is always included in what is rendered for the user and the layout of the text and other elements around and near the image is correct regardless of the shape size of their display.

Video blueprints may be used to display and show video. In some examples the video may include audio. The video may be played stopped paused rewound and fast forwarded. In some examples the video player may slow down the video so that a user can see difficult concepts slowly or can see a fast moving process slowly to better understand it. In other examples the video may be sped up to see a slow moving process faster. In still other examples the video may be 3 D video High Definition Video or the like. The video blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the media and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example the video and the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the video is always rendered appropriately to the user. Such adjustments include the video size frame rate quality and other video parameters.

Glossary blueprints allow content creators to create a list of important or key terms and definitions for those terms. In some examples the glossary may contain links to cards that describe or fully explain these terms. In some other examples the glossary may contain pictures video or other content. The glossary blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the various included media and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the media capabilities of two different devices are different the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the layout is correct across both devices.

Assessment blueprints test readers knowledge of the subject matter of the electronic book. shows one example of a multiple choice assessment blueprint. A question is presented to the user with a list of possible answers . In some examples only one of the answers is correct but in other examples several of the answers may be correct. Buttons illustrate possible actions. Once a user selects one of the choices the user may select the check answer button. The check answer button checks the user s selection with the right answer and informs the user of whether the user answered correctly. In some examples the system will give the user the correct answer but in other examples the system will let the user pick another choice and check the answer again. A hint button may also provide an answer hint to guide the user to the correct answer. The multiple choice assessment blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the various included media and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the media capabilities of two different devices are different the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the layout is correct across both devices.

A re ordering assessment is an assessment that presents a user with a list of items and the user tests his or her knowledge of the material by re ordering the list into a correct order based on the question presented. shows an example of a re ordering assessment. In this assessment a question is presented . A list of items is ordered in a particular order which in some examples is random and users are to re arrange the list into a desired or correct order. In some examples the assessment provides information to the user regarding their performance. In some examples the information may contain images audio video or any other content presentation object. The re ordering assessment blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the various included media and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the media capabilities of two different devices are different the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the layout is correct across both devices.

The matching assessment presents a series or list of items or terms and asks users to correctly match those items or terms with another series or list of corresponding items or terms. show a matching assessment according to some examples. A question is presented that defines the matching parameters. shows the first list or series of items or terms that users need to match to the second list of items or terms . A user may then drag items from the first list next to items from the second list as shown in . Once the user has dragged all the items the assessment may provide feedback to the user. In some examples the system provides instant feedback to a user upon placing an item in the first list next to an item in the second list . The feedback provided to the user may include text images audio video or any other content presentation object. shows an example of how an item in the first list or series is dragged to be matched to an item in the second list or series . The matching assessment blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however both the various included media and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the media capabilities of two different devices are different the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the layout is correct across both devices.

A fill in assessment displays an image with interactive data points that a user is asked to identify. This blueprint emulates the guided tour blueprint in that it displays a single large image except the user is quizzed on the various annotations in the image. When a user clicks on the pop tip a blank text box is displayed where the user types the answer. The blueprint then checks the typed answer against the correct answer and determines whether the user was correct or wrong. One example of a fill in assessment is shown in . Question is presented to the user along with image and pop tips A C . Clicking or tapping on poptips pops up a text box for the user to type the answer. Once the user is done filling in the various answers the user may select the check answer button . Help button may either provide interface help to describe how to fill in the assessment or may provide context help to help the user with the questions by giving answer hints. A feedback area is shown when the user selects the check answer button to provide feedback on what the user did right and wrong. Feedback area in some examples may include text graphics audio video audio video or any other content presentation item. Like the guided tour blueprint the fill in blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained however the media and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example even if the images on two different devices are of different sizes the blueprint will be adjusted for that platform so that the region of interest is always included in what is rendered for the user and the layout of the text and other elements around and near the image is correct regardless of the shape size of their display.

The audio assessment plays an audio file in combination with a different assessment type. In the example of an audio assessment with a matching assessment is shown. The audio may be the question part of the question or it may be an answer hint or part of the answer. The audio assessment blueprint may be platform agnostic as already explained both the media and the blueprint may be adjusted by the interaction service to adjust for different device characteristics. Thus for example the various audio quality parameters such as bit rate quality and the like may be adjusted to suit the particular device.

Also shown in is a question progress bar which shows a user the progress they are making through a series of assessments or questions. In some examples the progress bar may be a standard completion bar showing the user s progress through the assessment. In other examples each question may be represented along a scale showing completed questions and questions that have not been completed. Various colors and graphics may be used to indicate to a user that a question has not been attempted has been attempted but the user was wrong and has been attempted and the user got the correct answer. For example and as shown in a checkmark indicates the user got that particular question correct while an X indicates a wrong answer for that question. If there are more assessments than may be represented a scrollbar may be used so that a user may scroll the progress bar .

The execution environment takes the platform independent digital specification and the media and presents it to the user and allows for user interactions with the presented content. As used herein the term present includes at least the displaying or playing of audio visual and audio visual content. The content includes text graphics images video sounds as well as the manipulation of and interaction with that content by an end user.

In some examples the execution environment also connects to the interaction service and requests a web page or listing of available electronic books to download or otherwise authorize. In some examples this functionality may include an electronic book or media marketplace where such media is available for purchase. The store may include search capabilities personal recommendations user ratings and other features. In some examples the store may even present a list of the required textbooks for courses a user is enrolled in. Each item may also show related content such as supplements and other learning aids related to the electronic book. In some examples purchases may be made with credit card with or without a user opening an account with the store. In other examples the store accounts may be linked with or use other accounts such as an iTunes account run by Apple Inc. or an Amazon.com account. These accounts may save user purchasing information.

In some examples the store may be an online merchant store residing on the interactive service. In other examples the store may be an application on the electronic reader where the application communicates with the server infrastructure to ascertain the server s current inventory. In still other examples the store is run by a third party server such as iTunes or the App store. One example store is shown in . shows a header with search boxes. shows personalized recommendations and shows various categories of electronic books. Various navigation elements such as scrollbars and page indicators are also shown.

In some examples the execution environment provides the user with a way to organize already purchased media according to courses topics or the like. For example shows some examples of an execution environment. Reference numeral identifies 3 dimensional thumbnails of the various stacks of cards making up material for various courses the user is enrolled in. Reference numeral identifies the various books in the user s digital library i.e. the books the user owns or has access to . The material for the various courses may include the user s current assignments for a particular period. Thus if the user is to read chapter 20 in the electronic book and do certain supplemental problems the cards for chapter 20 and the supplemental problems will appear on the stack in section . illustrates other user navigation aids to access the bookstore settings and various social features. When a course or textbook is selected various animations may provide feedback to the user on the selection. For example if one of the various stacks of cards is selected from the course materials section the stack may graphically expand and allow a user to scroll through thumbnail images of the various media in the stack. Thus for example if the stack includes a portion of an electronic book as well as other supplements the user may select which media content to view. illustrates a stack of course materials which has expanded. A user may swipe left or right to advance to the previous or next item in the stack. Tapping on the screen may select a particular item. In some examples certain gestures may allow users to peek or zoom in on a particular thumbnail to look at various items of content. Other examples allow a user to swipe there finger across the screen to display additional screens of information.

Within an electronic book the execution environment presents the user with various navigation aids. In some examples the electronic book allows users to view thumbnail images from various sections of the electronic book. In other examples the execution environment allows the user to view the titles from various sections of the book. In other examples the electronic book presents a virtual spine which allows a user to see their relative location in the electronic book. In other examples the electronic book may provide a navigation aid to show a user his or her assignments for the course in a drop down box. This allows a user to quickly jump to other assignment cards in the stack. shows some examples of an assignment navigation displayed over a reader card . shows some examples of thumbnail navigation of book sections including chapters sections and the like.

In some examples the execution environment receives and processes input from the user and changes the content presentation in a predefined manner. In some examples the user input includes touches gestures keyboard inputs mouse inputs trackball inputs accelerometer or other motion inputs speech inputs and the like. Gestures are short directional movements made by a finger hand stylus or other object to make a short directional movement over a control or object on the screen. In some example a user is allowed to take and share with other users notes relating to various portions of the book. In other examples a user may easily navigate through a series or stack of cards by flipping or scrolling through a column view.

In some examples the execution environment allows a user to select various content and incorporate that content into a separate notebook section. The notebook may be automatically sorted based on the portion of the book the content was copied from i.e. by chapter section etc . . . or may be organized based on order. Notebooks may be shared across users. In some examples the execution environment may generate automatic flashcards from the notebook or otherwise include assessments relating to the selected content. In other examples the notebook may include text graphics or other content presentation items found or entered by users outside the electronic book. One example notes section is shown in .

In yet other examples the notes functionality may be integrated into the interactive assessments. For example the system may automatically track and associate particular notes with particular content. Thus the system may associate notes taken by users with the interactive content presentation object or objects that are being viewed at or near that time. As stated before certain assessments contain a hint button that offers users hints. The system may then use the notes associated with the interactive content presentation object or objects that are the subject of the assessment to provide the hints. In some other examples after a user gets a wrong answer the user may call up his or her notes by performing some action. One example of this is shown in where a user may rotate the electronic reader to show the notes while taking assessment .

Client application represents the user level executable the user launches on the client device in order to access the electronic book. In some embodiments all functions of may be inside the client application. In other examples only selected portions are encapsulated in client application .

In some examples digital rights management process or DRM process authorizes and authenticates a particular user or device in order to allow the user to access appropriate media from the electronic book. DRM may authorize an entire book or selected portions thereof. DRM also prevents the user and device from accessing electronic books or segments thereof that the user is not authorized to access. In some examples DRM may also be configured to prevent a user or system from extracting text images video or other protected assets and transmitting those assets to another device or writing them out to disk for later retrieval or sharing.

Platform independent digital specification provides a platform agnostic representation of all content and metadata for that content. Metadata may include basic information such as the date content was created the version number and where the content should appear in the context of its bundle. Metadata may also include descriptions of interactive behavior such as for example where audio annotations would be anchored on an image when it rendered in the system or how an image might be positioned initially on the screen when a user opens it.

Interactive engine is configured to interpret the intermediate platform independent digital specification and read data from the media bundle providing it in a platform specific representation to the layout rendering engine and the platform specific API . The interactive engine may be configured to also handle events such as multi finger touch inputs to determine the appropriate behavior of the object on screen. Platform specific API is configured to accept data from the interactive engine and media bundle and determine the appropriate objects to instantiate in order to display the content to the user. The layout rendering engine works in parallel with the platform specific API to render that content to the display. The user interface is a collection of canonical visual elements that provide the user with known results to input behaviors. For example the user interface may be configured to render a small sticky note that shows that a given location in a document and has an annotation attached.

The execution environment runs on an electronic reader. In some examples the electronic reader may be an IPAD manufactured by APPLE COMPUTER INC. of Cupertino Calif. or another tablet computer or electronic reader such as a Nook manufactured by BARNES AND NOBLE INC. of New York N.Y. or Kindle manufactured by AMAZON.COM of Seattle Wash. In some other examples the electronic reader may be a laptop or desktop computer. In other examples the electronic reader may be a cellphone or smartphone such as the APPLE IPHONE manufactured by APPLE COMPUTER INC. of Cupertino Calif. The electronic reader may be any device with a display an input mechanism a processor and electronic storage.

RF Receiver and RF Transmitter may send signals to the antenna of display . RF transmitter contains all the necessary functionality for transmitting radio frequency signals via antenna given a baseband signal sent from Processor . RF transmitter may contain an amplifier to amplify signals before supplying the signal to integrated antenna . RF transmitter and RF Receiver are capable of transmitting and receiving radio frequency signals of any frequency including microwave frequency bands 0.3 to 300 GHz which include cellular telecommunications WLAN and WWAN frequencies. Oscillator may provide a frequency pulse to both RF Receiver and RF Transmitter .

Device may include a battery or other power source with associated power management process or module . Power management module distributes power from the battery to the other various components. Power management module may also convert the power from battery to match the needs of the various components. Power may also be derived from alternating or direct current supplied from a power network.

Processor may communicate and control other peripherals such as LCD display with associated touch screen sensor . Processor causes images to be displayed on LCD display and receives input from the touch screen sensor when a user presses on the touch screen display. In some examples touch screen sensor may be a multi touch sensor capable of distinguishing and processing gestures.

Processor may receive input from a physical keyboard . Processor may produce audio output and other alerts which are played on the speaker . Speaker may also be used to play voices in the case of a voice phone call that have been received from RF receiver and been decoded by Processor . Microphone is used to transmit a voice for a voice call conversation to Processor for subsequent encoding and transmission using RF Transmitter . Microphone may also be used as an input device for commands using voice processing software. Accelerometer provides input on the motion of the device to processor . Accelerometer may be used in motion sensitive applications. Bluetooth module may be used to communicate with Bluetooth enabled external devices. Video capture device may be a still or moving picture image capture device or both. Video Capture device is controlled by Processor and may take and store photos videos and may be used in conjunction with microphone to capture audio along with video. USB port enables external connections to other devices supporting the USB standard and charging capabilities. USB port may include all the functionality to connect to and establish a connection with an external device over USB. External storage module may include any form of removable physical storage media such as a flash drive micro SD card SD card Memory Stick and the like. External storage module may include all the functionality needed to interface with these media.

Interactive Service in some examples includes data storage authentication and authorization services social networking services content ingestion listing and publishing services and bundling services. One example interactive service is shown in .

In content ingestion process takes input parameters templates and content and creates a platform independent digital specification of an electronic book with the interactive content presentation and assessment modules. The platform independent digital specification may be in any format in which an execution environment of an electronic reader may read interpret and process in order to display the content presentation items of the electronic book. The platform independent digital specification may also include parameters for the various interactive content presentation objects that tell the execution environment how to handle user interaction. In some examples the platform independent digital representation is an s9ML file which in some examples may be an xml html or other markup language file according to a defined structure.

Content ingestion process then stores the generated platform independent digital specification in electronic storage . Electronic storage may be any electronic storage capable of storing and retrieving the digital specifications and the media. In some examples electronic storage is a separate system such as a network attached storage NAS or storage area network SAN system.

Payment and Purchasing process includes all the functions necessary to advertise the availability of a particular electronic book stored in electronic storage to a plurality of reader devices. In some examples payment and purchasing process may communicate the availability of titles directly to the electronic readers either by pushing the availability information to the execution environment of the readers which may have a marketplace application executing or by allowing the reader to request the information through for example a web interface. Thus in some examples the payment and purchasing process may function as a web server and in other examples it may function as a data source for a store application on the reader device itself. In still other examples payment and purchasing process may communicate title availability to a third party web merchant site such as Amazon iTunes or the iPhone App Store.

Payment process may include all the functions necessary to process payments from reader devices. In some examples this may include credit card processing functions in other examples this includes electronic payment interfaces to third party applications such as that of PayPal run by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. In some examples payment application may maintain a credit or debit account for the user of the reader device.

Authentication and Authorization contains all the functions necessary to authenticate a reader device and authorize the reader device to view the requested content. In some examples the electronic book may contain digital rights management software. In some examples the authentication and authorization works with the digital rights management of the electronic book or the digital rights management of the electronic reader to authorize the user to access the content. In some examples the Authentication and Authorization process works with the payment applications to authenticate and authorize the content only after payment is verified or received.

Once the content is paid for authenticated and authorized listing and delivery process delivers or makes available for delivery the electronic book or a portion thereof. In some examples the reader device downloads the platform independent specification file with any other content required i.e. pictures audio video etc. . In other examples the file is streamed as the user is viewing the content. In yet other examples the listing and delivery process informs a third party content storage facility to deliver or authorize the delivery of the content.

In some examples the electronic book and the interactive content presentation items are tagged by the chapter sentence paragraph word or any arbitrary segment. In some examples users may purchase only certain portions of the electronic book based on this tagging. Dynamic sequencing is discussed in detail in U.S. patent a Ser. No. 12 911 247 entitled Methods for sequencing electronic media content to Peter Cho which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In other examples these tags are used to share social content interactions. Bundling application uses these tags along with information on which portions of the electronic book to send to the reader device to bundle all the proper content together to send it to the reader device rather than the entire electronic book.

Interaction and analysis process receives processes stores and sends to other reader devices interactions from users. These interactions may include in some examples user comments relating to a portion of the electronic book user questions or any other interactions. In some examples the interactions may be text in other examples it may be any combination of text graphics photos html links or the like. Interactions may also include in some examples interactive bookmarks to share with other content users a particular user s location in the content. Other interactions may include highlighting which shares a particular user s highlighting choices with other users. Interaction and analysis process also receives assessment results from the electronic readers. Interaction and analysis process may then provide various reports about the test performance of a particular user and about all users who submitted results. These reports may include reports on how well an assessment is designed that is intended for the content designer. For example if most individuals performed extremely well it signals that the assessment may have been too easy. Other reports include reports sent to users who have completed assessments showing their results as well as showing results of other users who have completed the assessments. These reports may be made anonymous so that users may not directly see other user s scores. In some examples only an average score will be shown in other examples a ranking may be shown to indicate where a particular user is with respect to other users.

It will be appreciated that the components inside the interactive service could be implemented as separate components or those components not shown as part of interactive service could be included as part of interactive service . Additionally the various components could be executing on the same hardware or on different hardware connected to each other through a computer network. In some examples this computer network may include LAN WAN the Internet WiFi Wi Max Cellular and any other method of data transmission. In some other examples different hardware components may be connected through local connections such as fiber Ethernet serial parallel PS2 USB wireless infra red firewire or the like. Electronic reading devices may communicate with the interactive service through direct connections such as USB Ethernet serial parallel PS2 USB wireless infra red firewire or the like. In other examples electronic reading devices may communicate with the interactive service through a computer network. In some examples the reader devices access the computer network through wired connections such as USB Ethernet firewire or the like but in other examples the reader devices may access the computer network through wireless means such as Wi Fi Bluetooth satellite cellular data communications including but not limited to analog digital 2nd Generation 2G systems such as Integrated Digital Enhanced Network iDEN Global System for Mobile Communications GSM 2.5G systems such as General Packet Radio Service GPRS 2.75G systems such as Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE 3G systems such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS and 4G Systems such as the Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX and Long Term Evolution LTE systems and the like.

While the digital specification and the media such as the pictures graphics etc. that are described by the digital specification are sent unchanged in some examples to the reader device in other examples minor modifications are made depending on the device type. This is because there may be little benefit in sending a high resolution image to a reader device that is a cellphone which is incapable of rendering such a high resolution image. Thus to better put the electronic book in a form ready for presentation the interactive service may modify the content according to the target reader device .

Since the electronic reading devices may not always be connected to the interactive service through a network such as the internet in some examples the interactive service will need to temporarily store the interactions destined for a particular reader device if that reader device is not connected to the interactive service. Once the particular reader connects to the service the interactions may then be delivered.

In group learning settings such as a K 12 classroom higher education institution distance learning classroom corporate training classes or other types of organized course settings educators may wish to see aggregated data about how users of the content are spending their time how they are performing on assessment and the like. In some examples the system will present user specific data to the instructor. In other examples the instructor sees aggregate data for a group of users such as the percentage of users who have completed a specific reading or assignment. The system may aggregate such user data across any devices or platforms used to access the system.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU a Graphics Processing Unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or a Cathode Ray Tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a User Interface UI cursor controller e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device e.g. a transmitter .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions illustrated herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device using any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP Session Initiation Protocol SIP .

The term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any of the one or more of the methodologies illustrated herein. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic medium. In some examples the machine readable medium may be limited to non transitory machine readable mediums.

Method embodiments illustrated herein may be computer implemented. Some embodiments may include computer readable media encoded with a computer program e.g. software which includes instructions operable to cause an electronic device to perform methods of various embodiments. A software implementation or computer implemented method may include microcode assembly language code or a higher level language code which further may include computer readable instructions for performing various methods. The code may form portions of computer program products. Further the code may be tangibly stored on one or more volatile or non volatile computer readable media during execution or at other times. These computer readable media may include but are not limited to hard disks removable magnetic disks removable optical disks e.g. compact disks and digital video disks magnetic cassettes memory cards or sticks Random Access Memories RAMs Read Only Memories ROMs and the like.

The above detailed description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are also referred to herein as examples. Such examples may include elements in addition to those shown or described. However the present inventors also contemplate examples in which only those elements shown or described are provided. Moreover the present inventors also contemplate examples using any combination or permutation of those elements shown or described or one or more aspects thereof either with respect to a particular example or one or more aspects thereof or with respect to other examples or one or more aspects thereof shown or described herein.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In this document the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third etc. are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. For example the above described examples or one or more aspects thereof may be used in combination with each other. Other embodiments may be used such as by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. Also in the above Detailed Description various features may be grouped together to streamline the disclosure. This should not be interpreted as intending that an unclaimed disclosed feature is essential to any claim. Rather inventive subject matter may lie in less than all features of a particular disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment and it is contemplated that such embodiments can be combined with each other in various combinations or permutations. The scope of the invention should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

