---

title: Group III nitride semiconductor devices with silicon nitride layers and methods of manufacturing such devices
abstract: Methods of fabricating transistor in which a first Group III nitride layer is formed on a substrate in a reactor, and a second Group III nitride layer is formed on the first Group III nitride layer. An insulating layer such as, for example, a silicon nitride layer is formed on the second Group III nitride layer in-situ in the reactor. The substrate including the first Group III nitride layer, the second group III nitride layer and the silicon nitride layer is removed from the reactor, and the silicon nitride layer is patterned to form a first contact hole that exposes a first contact region of the second Group III nitride layer. A metal contact is formed on the first contact region of the second Group III nitride layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08481376&OS=08481376&RS=08481376
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 08481376
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110120
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 286 805 filed Nov. 23 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 901 994 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 758 871 filed on Jan. 16 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 045 404 the disclosures of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein as if set forth in their entireties.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. FA8650 04 C 7146 from the Air Force Research Laboratory. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to semiconductor devices and more particularly to semiconductor devices that include silicon nitride protective and or passivation layers and methods of making such devices.

Materials such as silicon Si and gallium arsenide GaAs have found wide application in semiconductor devices for lower power and in the case of Si lower frequency applications. These semiconductor materials may be less well suited for higher power and or high frequency applications however because of their relatively small bandgaps e.g. 1.12 eV for Si and 1.42 for GaAs at room temperature and or relatively small breakdown voltages.

For high power high temperature and or high frequency applications and devices wide bandgap semiconductor materials such as silicon carbide 2.996 eV bandgap for alpha SiC at room temperature and the Group III nitrides e.g. 3.36 eV bandgap for GaN at room temperature are often used. These materials typically have higher electric field breakdown strengths and higher electron saturation velocities as compared to gallium arsenide and silicon.

A device of particular interest for high power and or high frequency applications is the High Electron Mobility Transistor HEMT which is also known as a modulation doped field effect transistor MODFET . These devices may offer operational advantages under a number of circumstances because a two dimensional electron gas 2DEG is formed at the heterojunction of two semiconductor materials with different bandgap energies where the smaller bandgap material has a higher electron affinity. The 2DEG is an accumulation layer in the undoped unintentionally doped smaller bandgap material and can contain a very high sheet electron concentration in excess of for example 10carriers cm. Additionally electrons that originate in the wider bandgap semiconductor transfer to the 2DEG allowing a high electron mobility due to reduced ionized impurity scattering. This combination of high carrier concentration and high carrier mobility can give the HEMT a very large transconductance and may provide a strong performance advantage over metal semiconductor field effect transistors MESFETs for high frequency applications.

High electron mobility transistors fabricated in the gallium nitride aluminum gallium nitride GaN AlGaN material system have the potential to generate large amounts of RF power because of the combination of material characteristics that includes the aforementioned high breakdown fields their wide bandgaps large conduction band offset and or high saturated electron drift velocity. A major portion of the electrons in the 2DEG is attributed to polarization in the AlGaN. HEMTs in the GaN AlGaN system have already been demonstrated. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 192 987 and 5 296 395 describe AlGaN GaN HEMT structures and methods of manufacture. U.S. Pat. No. 6 316 793 which is commonly assigned and is incorporated herein by reference describes a HEMT device having a semi insulating silicon carbide substrate an aluminum nitride buffer layer on the substrate an insulating gallium nitride layer on the buffer layer an aluminum gallium nitride barrier layer on the gallium nitride layer and a passivation layer on the aluminum gallium nitride active structure.

The passivation layer in HEMT devices has traditionally been formed on the top surface of the barrier layer in an ex situ manner meaning in a different reactor chamber after removal of the device from the epitaxial growth reactor. This may result in small pit formation in the barrier layer at points where screw and edge dislocations traverse the interface between the channel and barrier layers. The diameter of these pit openings are small e.g. on the order of twice the thickness of the barrier layer but clearly discernable on a 2 2 micron square AFM scan.

Another step in the fabrication of nitride based transistors is the formation of ohmic contacts for such transistors. The formation of ohmic contacts has typically required high annealing temperatures e.g. 750 C. . Such high annealing temperatures may damage the materials and or the device.

For example in conventional devices utilizing high annealing temperatures when forming ohmic contacts the sheet resistance of a gate region defined as the active device region between the two contacts of AlGaN and or GaN layers typically increases in comparison to sheet resistances of the AlGaN and or GaN layers as grown. Such an increase in sheet resistance is believed to detrimentally affect the device.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 498 111 discloses a method for protecting the surface of a semiconductor material from damage and dopant passivation in which a barrier layer of dense material is deposited on the semiconductor material shortly after growth in a growth reactor such as a MOCVD reactor using the MOCVD source gases. This barrier layer blocks the diffusion of hydrogen into the material. The reactor is then cooled in a reactive or non reactive ambient gas. The semiconductor material is then removed from the reactor with little or no passivation of the dopant species. The barrier layer may comprise a silicon nitride layer. The Proceedings from the MRS Fall 2004 Meeting Symposium E GaN AlN InN and Their Alloys Vol. 831 Vol. 831 bstracts due by Jun. 22 2004 Meeting held November 29 Dec. 3 2004 Abstract E6.7 and E8.20 discuss AlGaN GaN HEMTs that include an SiOor SiNpassivation by both PECVD and by in situ MOCVD of the top AlGaN surface as a way of improving device performance and reported that 2DEG carrier concentration increased strongly with increasing SiNthickness varying from 0 to 15 nm.

Pursuant to embodiments of the present invention methods of fabricating transistors are provided in which a first Group III nitride layer is formed on a substrate in a reactor. A second Group III nitride layer is formed on the first Group III nitride layer. An insulating layer is formed on the second Group III nitride layer in situ in the reactor. Thereafter the substrate including the first Group III nitride layer the second group III nitride layer and the insulating layer is removed from the reactor and the insulating layer is patterned to form at least a first contact hole that exposes a first contact region of the second Group III nitride layer. A contact is then formed on the first contact region of the second Group III nitride layer. In embodiments of the present invention the insulating layer may be a silicon nitride layer.

In these methods the silicon nitride layer may be formed at a growth rate of at least about 0.2 microns hour. The hydrogen concentration in the silicon nitride layer may be less than about 1 10atoms cm and or the oxygen concentration in the silicon nitride layer may be less than about 3 10atoms cm. The silicon nitride layer may be directly on the second Group III nitride layer and the surface of the second Group III nitride layer adjoining the silicon nitride layer may have a pit density of less than about 0.25 pits per m. In other embodiments even lower pit densities such as for example pit densities of about 0.01 pits per mor about 0.001 pits per mmay be provided. The silicon nitride layer may be formed using a high purity silicon gas e.g. 99.99 pure source and or may have a thickness of at least about 250 Angstroms. The silicon nitride layer may have a wet chemical etch rate in buffered oxide etch of less than about 10 Angstroms per minute.

In certain embodiments the transistor may comprise a High Electron Mobility Transistor and the first Group III nitride layer may be a Group III nitride channel layer and the second Group III nitride layer may be a Group III nitride barrier layer. In such embodiments the sheet resistance of the Group III nitride channel layer following formation of the metal contacts may be less than about two times the sheet resistance of the Group III nitride channel layer as grown. In other embodiments the sheet resistance of the Group III nitride channel layer following formation of the metal contacts may be less than about 1.1 times the sheet resistance of the Group III nitride channel layer as grown.

Pursuant to further embodiments of the present invention transistors are provided that include a Group III nitride channel a Group III nitride barrier layer on the channel a silicon nitride layer on a first portion of the Group III nitride barrier layer first and second ohmic contacts on respective second portions of the Group III nitride barrier layer and a gate contact on the Group III nitride barrier layer that extends through the silicon nitride layer. In these transistors the hydrogen concentration in the silicon nitride layer is less than about 3 10atoms cm. In certain embodiments the oxygen concentration in the silicon nitride layer may also be less than about 3 10atoms cm.

In specific embodiments the silicon nitride layer may have a thickness of at least about 200 Angstroms. The silicon nitride layer may also have a wet chemical etch rate in buffered oxide etch BOE of less than about 10 Angstroms per minute. The sheet resistance of the Group III nitride channel may be less than about 1000 Ohms per square.

In some embodiments of these transistors the silicon nitride layer is directly on the Group III nitride barrier layer and the surface of the Group III nitride barrier layer adjoining the silicon nitride layer has a pit density of less than about 0.25 pits per m. The transistors may also have a carbon concentration in the silicon nitride layer that is less than about 5 10atoms cm a fluorine concentration that is less than about 5 10and or a chlorine concentration that is less than about 8 10.

In additional embodiments of the present invention transistors are provided that include a Group III nitride channel a Group III nitride barrier layer on the channel a silicon nitride layer on a first portion of the Group III nitride barrier layer first and second ohmic contacts on respective second portions of the Group III nitride barrier layer and a gate contact on the Group III nitride barrier layer that extends through the silicon nitride layer. The silicon nitride layer is directly on the channel and the surface of the channel adjoining the silicon nitride layer has a pit density of less than about 0.25 pits per m.

In certain embodiments of these transistors the hydrogen concentration in the silicon nitride layer is less than about 3 10atoms cm and or the oxygen concentration in the silicon nitride layer is less than about 3 10atoms cm. The silicon nitride layer may have a thickness of at least about 300 Angstroms and or the sheet resistance of the Group III nitride channel is less than about 1000 Ohms per square.

In yet other embodiments of the present invention methods of fabricating a Group III nitride semiconductor device are provided in which a first Group III nitride semiconductor layer doped with silicon is formed on a substrate using a source material containing a Group III metal a source material containing nitrogen and a first silicon gas source. A silicon nitride layer is then formed on the Group III nitride semiconductor layer using a second silicon gas source wherein the second silicon gas source has a higher silicon concentration than the first silicon gas source.

In these methods the first Group III nitride semiconductor layer and the first silicon nitride layer may be formed via MOCVD. The Group III nitride semiconductor device may for example be a HEMT transistor having a channel layer and a barrier layer on the channel layer and the silicon nitride layer may be formed via MOCVD in situ in the reactor on the barrier layer.

The silicon nitride layer may be formed on the Group III nitride semiconductor layer at a growth rate of at least about 0.2 microns hour. The hydrogen concentration in the silicon nitride layer may be less than about 3 10atoms cm and or the oxygen concentration in the silicon nitride layer may be less than about 3 10atoms cm. The silicon nitride layer may have a thickness for example of at least about 250 Angstroms.

Embodiments of the present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion i.e. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

Relative terms such as below or above or upper or lower or horizontal or vertical may be used herein to describe a relationship of one element layer or region to another element layer or region as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that these terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the invention. The thickness of layers and regions in the drawings may be exaggerated for clarity. Additionally variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a binary change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the actual shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms used herein should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this disclosure and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

Embodiments of the present invention utilize a protective layer and or a low damage recess fabrication technique to reduce gate leakage and or provide a high quality Schottky contact in a semiconductor device such as a transistor. The use of a protective layer may reduce damage to the semiconductor in the gate region of the transistor that may occur during an anneal of ohmic contacts of the device. Thus high quality gate and ohmic contacts may be provided with reduced degradation of the gate region that may result from formation of the ohmic contacts.

Embodiments of the present invention may be particularly well suited for use in nitride based HEMTs such as Group III nitride based devices. As used herein the term Group III nitride refers to those semiconducting compounds formed between nitrogen and the elements in Group III of the periodic table usually aluminum Al gallium Ga and or indium In . The term also refers to ternary and quaternary or higher compounds such as for example AlGaN and AlInGaN. As is well understood by those in this art the Group III elements can combine with nitrogen to form binary e.g. GaN ternary e.g. AlGaN AlInN and quaternary e.g. AlInGaN compounds. These compounds all have empirical formulas in which one mole of nitrogen is combined with a total of one mole of the Group III elements. Accordingly formulas such as AlGaN where 0 x1 are often used to describe them.

Further embodiments of the present invention provide high quality silicon nitride layers that may have reduced impurity levels and Group III nitride based HEMTs that include such silicon nitride layers. Herein the term silicon nitride and the term SiN are meant to encompass both stoichiometric and non stoichiometric silicon nitride. Additional embodiments of the present invention provide devices such as Group III nitride HEMTs having uppermost Group III nitride layers that have reduced pitting. Methods of making such high quality silicon nitride layers and improved HEMTs are also disclosed herein.

Suitable structures for GaN based HEMTs that may utilize embodiments of the present invention are described for example in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 316 793 6 548 333 6 849 882 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 617 843 filed Jul. 11 2003 for NITRIDE BASED TRANSISTORS AND METHODS OF FABRICATION THEREOF USING NON ETCHED CONTACT RECESSES the disclosures of each of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Fabrication of embodiments of the present invention is schematically illustrated in . As seen in a substrate is provided on which nitride based devices may be formed. In particular embodiments of the present invention the substrate may be a semi insulating silicon carbide SiC substrate that may be for example 4H polytype of silicon carbide. Other silicon carbide candidate polytypes include the 3C 6H and 15R polytypes. The term semi insulating is used descriptively rather than in an absolute sense. In particular embodiments of the present invention the silicon carbide bulk crystal has a resistivity equal to or higher than about 1 10 cm at room temperature.

Optional buffer nucleation and or transition layers not shown may be provided on the substrate . For example an AlN buffer layer may be provided to provide an appropriate crystal structure transition between the silicon carbide substrate and the remainder of the device. Additionally strain balancing transition layer s may also be provided as described for example in commonly assigned United States Patent Publication 2003 0102482A1 filed Jul. 19 2002 and published Jun. 5 2003 and entitled STRAIN BALANCED NITRIDE HETROJUNCTION TRANSISTORS AND METHODS OF FABRICATING STRAIN BALANCED NITRIDE HETEROJUNCTION TRANSISTORS and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 337 687 filed Dec. 3 2001 and entitled STRAIN BALANCED NITRIDE HETEROJUNCTION TRANSISTOR the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein.

Silicon carbide has a much closer crystal lattice match to Group III nitrides than does sapphire AlO which is a very common substrate material for Group III nitride devices. The closer lattice match may result in Group III nitride films of higher quality than those generally available on sapphire. Silicon carbide also has a very high thermal conductivity so that the total output power of Group III nitride devices on silicon carbide is typically not as limited by thermal dissipation of the substrate as in the case of the same devices formed on sapphire. Also the availability of semi insulating silicon carbide substrates may provide for device isolation and reduced parasitic capacitance. Appropriate SiC substrates are manufactured by for example Cree Inc. of Durham N.C. the assignee of the present invention and methods for producing are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. Re. 34 861 4 946 547 5 200 022 and 6 218 680 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Similarly techniques for epitaxial growth of Group III nitrides have been described in for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 210 051 5 393 993 5 523 589 and 5 292 501 the contents of which are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Although silicon carbide may be used as a substrate material embodiments of the present invention may utilize any suitable substrate such as sapphire aluminum nitride aluminum gallium nitride gallium nitride silicon GaAs LGO ZnO LAO InP and the like. In some embodiments an appropriate buffer layer also may be formed.

Returning to a channel layer is provided on the substrate . The channel layer may be deposited on the substrate using buffer layers transition layers and or nucleation layers as described above. The channel layer may be under compressive strain. Furthermore the channel layer and or buffer nucleation and or transition layers may be deposited by MOCVD or by other techniques known to those of skill in the art such as MBE or HYPE.

In some embodiments of the present invention the channel layer is a Group III nitride such as AlGaN where 0 x

A barrier layer is provided on the channel layer . The channel layer may have a bandgap that is less than the bandgap of the barrier layer and the channel layer may also have a larger electron affinity than the barrier layer . The barrier layer may be deposited on the channel layer . In certain embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is AlN AlInN AlGaN or AlInGaN or combinations of layers thereof. The barrier layer may for example be from about 0.1 nm to about 10 nm thick but is not so thick as to cause cracking or substantial defect formation therein. In certain embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is undoped or doped with an n type dopant to a concentration less than about 10cm. In some embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is AlGaN where 0

Examples of layers according to certain embodiments of the present invention are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 849 882 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein. In particular embodiments of the present invention the barrier layer is thick enough and has a high enough Al composition and doping to induce a significant carrier concentration at the interface between the channel layer and the barrier layer through polarization effects when the barrier layer is buried under ohmic contact metal. Also the barrier layer may be thick enough to reduce or minimize scattering of electrons in the channel due to ionized impurities deposited at the interface between the barrier layer and a second cap layer .

In particular embodiments of the present invention the protective layer is SiN. The SiN may be formed by PVD and or CVD and may be non stoichiometric in compressive or tensile strain. For example the protective layer may have a stress of between about 100 MPa and about 100 MPa. In certain embodiments of the present invention the SiN protective layer has an index of refraction at a 633 nm wavelength of from about 1.6 to about 2.2. In particular embodiments the index of refraction of the SiN protective layer is 1.98 0.05.

In certain embodiments the protective layer may be AlN. The AlN may be formed by PVD and or CVD and may be non stoichiometric in compressive or tensile strain. For example the protective layer may have a stress of between about 100 MPa and about 100 MPa. In certain embodiments of the present invention the AlN protective layer has an index of refraction at a 633 nm wavelength from about 1.8 to about 2.1. In particular embodiments the index of refraction of the AlN protective layer is 1.85 0.05.

The protective layer may also be SiO. The SiOmay be formed by PVD and or CVD and may be non stoichiometric in compressive or tensile strain. For example the protective layer may have a stress of between about 100 MPa and about 100 MPa. In certain embodiments of the present invention the SiOprotective layer has an index of refraction at a 633 nm wavelength of from about 1.36 to about 1.56. In particular embodiments the index of refraction of the SiOprotective layer is 1.46 0.03.

The protective layer may be blanket formed on the barrier layer and may be formed by deposition. For example a silicon nitride layer may be formed by high quality sputtering and or PECVD. Typically the protective layer may have a thickness of about 30 nm however other thickness layers may also be utilized. For example the protective layer should be sufficiently thick so as to protect the underlying layer during a subsequent anneal of ohmic contacts. Layers as thin as two or three monolayers may be sufficient for such purposes. However in general the protective layer may have a thickness of from about 10 nm to about 500 nm. Also a high quality SiN protective layer may be grown in situ with the MOCVD growth of the group III nitride layers.

As illustrated in windows are opened in the protective layer for formation of ohmic contacts . The windows may be formed utilizing a patterned mask and a low damage etch with respect to the barrier layer to expose the underlying barrier layer . Examples of low damage etch techniques include etching techniques other than reactive ion etching such as inductively coupled plasma or electron cyclotron resonance ECR or downstream plasma etching with no DC component to the plasma. For SiO a low damage etch could be a wet etch with buffered hydrofluoric acid. A selective etch of SiN and or SiOto an etch stop layer such as ITO SCO MgO or the like followed by a low damage removal of the etch stop layer could also be performed. For SiN SiOmay be used as an etch stop layer. In such embodiments the protective layer may include the SiN AlN and or SiOlayer as well as the etch stop layer. Thus in certain embodiments of the present invention the protective layer may include multiple layers.

As is further illustrated in with a subsequent photolithography step and evaporation ohmic metal is patterned to provide the ohmic contacts . The ohmic contacts are patterned so as to be smaller than the window in the protective layer such that the edges of the ohmic contacts are spaced apart from the protective layer . For example the edges of the ohmic contacts may be spaced apart from the protective layer by a distance of from about 0.1 to about 0.2 m. The ohmic contacts should be spaced apart from the protective layer a distance sufficiently large to allow for misalignment tolerances in the formation and patterning of the ohmic contact metal. If the ohmic contact metal contacts the protective layer the metal may diffuse into the protective layer during subsequent heating steps which may result in a short between a gate contact and the ohmic contact s . However the gap between the ohmic contacts and the protective layer should not be so large as to defeat the protective purpose of the protective layer and thereby substantially degrade the performance of the device but should not be so small to risk random contact of ohmic material to the protective layer. Thus for example in certain embodiments of the present invention the gap may be from about 0.1 m to about 0.5 m.

The ohmic contact material is annealed to provide the ohmic contacts . The anneal may be a high temperature anneal. For example the anneal may be an anneal at a temperature of greater than about 900 C. Through the use of an ohmic contact anneal the resistance of the ohmic contacts may be reduced from a high resistance to less than about 1 mm. Thus as used herein the term ohmic contact refers to a non rectifying contact that has a contact resistance of less than about 1 mm. The presence of the protective layer during the high temperature process steps may inhibit damage to the barrier layer that may be caused by such steps. Thus for example the sheet resistance of the gate region after the high temperature ohmic contact anneal may be substantially the same as the sheet resistance of the gate region as grown i.e. before the contact anneal . The sheet resistance after ohmic anneal or any other high temperature processing may remain within 100 of the sheet resistance of the gate region as grown. In other embodiments the sheet resistance of the gate region after ohmic anneal or any other high temperature processing may remain within about 1.1 times the sheet resistance of the gate region as grown.

As seen in a gate contact is formed in the recess and contacts the exposed portion of the barrier layer . The gate contact may be a T gate as illustrated in and may be fabricated using conventional fabrication techniques. Suitable gate materials may depend on the composition of the barrier layer however in certain embodiments conventional materials capable of making a Schottky contact to a nitride based semiconductor material may be used such as Ni Pt NiSi Cu Pd Cr W and or WSiN. Although it may be undesirable it is possible that a small gap between the protective layer and the gate contact may arise as a result of for example anisotropy of the low damage etch resulting in an exposed surface of the barrier layer between the protective layer and the gate contact .

While embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to a two mask process for forming opening gate contact windows and forming gate contacts with a gap to the protective layer illustrate operations for forming the ohmic contact windows and the ohmic contacts with a single mask. As seen in a mask such as a photoresist with a negative bevel may be formed on the protective layer . The negative bevel of the mask corresponds to the gap distance between the subsequently formed ohmic contacts and the patterned protective layer . The protective layer is isotropically etched using a low damage etch process as described above to provide the contact windows. Thus the contact windows will be defined by the bottom dimension of the mask . A mask layer without a negative bevel could also be used if the etch is isotropic and the low damage etch is substantially over etched to provide a lateral undercut to the desired spacing.

As seen in ohmic contact metal is evaporated on the resulting structure. The overhang of the mask defines the location where metal is deposited on the exposed barrier layer . Thus the contact metal is spaced apart from the patterned protective layer . The mask and the metal on the mask are removed to provide the structure of .

Techniques for providing a beveled mask as illustrated in are known to those of skill in the art. Furthermore while the mask is shown as having a bevel in other embodiments of the present invention the mask may have a step or other such configuration that provides a mask with two different apparent window sizes for the etch of the protective layer and the deposition of contact material. Thus for example multi layer photoresists are available that have different exposure sensitivity such that a single exposure may provide a mask with an overhang or step such that the window provided by the layer of photoresist proximate the protective layer is large than a window provided by the layer of photoresist spaced apart from the protective layer .

The anneal of the ohmic contact material regions is carried out with the protective layer in place. The protective layer may then be removed for example using a low damage etching technique such as those described above. The gate contact may then be formed before or after formation of a passivation layer . For example a layer of silicon nitride could be deposited by sputtering. A gate recess could then be etched for example using a low damage etch process as described above into the passivation layer and the gate formed in the recess. Such a process may provide for the silicon nitride passivation layer maintaining its full thickness to the edge of the T gate. Thus a transistor having a structure such as that illustrated in may be provided.

Alternatively the structure illustrated in may be provided utilizing the fabrication steps illustrated in however the protective layer may be removed either prior to or subsequent to the formation of the gate contact . In such a case the protective layer should be removed using low damage etching techniques such as those described above.

While embodiments of the present invention have been described herein with reference to particular HEMT structures the present invention should not be construed as limited to such structures. For example additional layers may be included in the HEMT device while still benefiting from the teachings of the present invention. Such additional layers may include GaN cap layers as for example described in Yu et al. Schottky barrier engineering in III V nitrides via the piezoelectric effect Applied Physics Letters Vol. 73 No. 13 1998 or in U.S. Pat. No. 6 548 333 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein. In some embodiments insulating layers such as SiNx or relatively high quality AlN may be deposited for making a MISHEMT and or passivating the surface. The additional layers may also include a compositionally graded transition layer or layers.

Furthermore the barrier layer may also be provided with multiple layers as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 849 882 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limiting the barrier layer to a single layer but may include for example barrier layers having combinations of GaN AlGaN and or AlN layers. For example a GaN AlN structure may be utilized to reduce or prevent alloy scattering. Thus embodiments of the present invention may include nitride based barrier layers such nitride based barrier layers may include AlGaN based barrier layers AlN based barrier layers and combinations thereof.

As noted above pursuant to certain embodiments of the present invention SiN protective layers and or passivation layers or other insulating layers may be grown on a semiconductor device in situ. By the term in situ it is meant that the SiN layer is grown on the device without removing the device from the reactor that is used to grow at least the immediately underlying layer of the device. By way of example in certain embodiments of the present invention that are discussed above SiN protective layers and or passivation layers are grown in situ by MOCVD after the MOCVD growth of various Group III nitride layers. This may be accomplished for example by depositing the SiN layer s immediately after the growth of the Group III nitride layers is completed. For example in embodiments of the present invention in which the Group III nitride layers are grown using metalorganics and NHsource gases the metalorganic gas source s may be switched off while the NHsource gas continues to flow. A silicon source such as for example pure SiHmay then be turned on to start immediate or almost immediate growth of the SiN layer on the top surface of the last grown Group III nitride layer. By starting growth of the SiN layer s with little or no delay after completion of the growth of the Group III nitride layers it may be possible to reduce and or minimize deposition of impurities at the interface between the uppermost Group III nitride layer and the SiN layer. This approach may also facilitate reducing and or minimizing decomposition of the top surface of the uppermost Group III nitride layer.

Pursuant to certain embodiments of the present invention the in situ grown SiN layers may be grown at high temperature e.g. above about 800 C. . Such high temperature growth may also facilitate reducing the impurity levels in the SiN layer and at the interface between a Group III nitride layer and the SiN layer. Additionally high growth rates may be employed which may facilitate reducing the levels of background reactor impurities incorporated into the SiN layer. For example in certain embodiments of the present invention the SiN layer s may be grown at a growth rate of at least about 0.2 microns hour. In certain specific embodiments the growth rate may be about 2 microns hour.

Forming the SiN layer in situ may also reduce the levels of impurities that are incorporated into the top surface of the uppermost Group III nitride layer and or into the SiN layer itself. In particular when the device is removed from the reactor and the SiN layer is formed via a post MOCVD growth process such as for example sputtering or PECVD a number of different mechanisms may introduce impurities. For example as discussed in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6 498 111 if hydrogen is present in an MOCVD reactor during the growth of a Group III nitride layer the hydrogen may tend to incorporate into the Group III nitride layer during cooling of the reactor following growth. Likewise exposure of the device to the atmosphere upon removal from the reactor may allow for incorporation of oxygen atoms and various other impurities may be introduced particularly adjacent the outer surfaces of the device as a result of handling of the device and or chemical cleaning of the device. Impurities may also be added if post growth processing such as wet etching electrode deposition annealing steps etc. are performed prior to deposition of the SiN protective passivation layer. These impurities may change the surface states at the interface between the Group III nitride layer and the SiN layer in ways that may be undesirable and or difficult to control reproduce. For example the presence of impurities can increase trapping at the interface between the SiN layer and the underlying Group III nitride layer thereby reducing the sheet resistance of the channel. Moreover as discussed herein the formation of pits in the layer underlying the SiN layer e.g. a barrier layer may be reduced and or minimized by growing the SiN layer in situ.

In certain embodiments of the present invention a high purity silicon gas source e.g. pure silane or SiH may be used as a source gas in the growth of the silicon nitride layer s . As is known to persons of skill in the art diluted and often less pure silicon gas sources such as for example diluted silane are often used as a source for silicon dopants in the growth of n doped Group III nitride layers. Herein the term diluted silicon gas source refers to a silicon gas source such as for example silane or disilane that has been diluted with a different often inert gas such as for example hydrogen nitrogen or argon. The ratio of the atomic Si provided by the diluted silicon gas to the Group III metal flow is less than about 0.01 for most doping applications and typically is on the order of about 0.0001 i.e. 100 parts per million . Since the range of mass flow controllers is often limited a silicon gas source concentration of for example 0.0001 100 parts per million is often selected. Safety considerations may also favor use of diluted silicon gas sources as it may be acceptable to store several hundred parts per million SiHdiluted in nitrogen inside a building whereas with pure SiHit may be necessary to store the gas outside or in a special bunker. Pursuant to embodiments of the present invention a pure silicon gas source may be connected to the reactor and used as the source gas for growth of one or more of the SiN layers in a device. By a pure silicon gas source it is meant that the purity of the silicon source as well as the purity of any dilution gas that may be mixed with or included in the silicon gas source is at least about 99.99 such as for example high purity silane available from Matheson www.mathesontrigas.com having a purity of 99.9996 or Megaclass Grade 5N7 high purity silane gas from AirProducts www.airproducts.com which is 99.9997 pure. Pure disilane SiH or other pure silicon gas sources may be used instead of high purity silane SiH . The silicon containing chemical should be suitable for doping of Group III nitrides and or for growth of silicon nitride. It will also be understood that the pure silicon gas from the pure silicon gas source may be diluted in the gas mixing system before injection into the reactor where the pure silicon gas is further diluted with other reactants and carrier gases.

In certain embodiments of the present invention the only detectable impurities using conventional detection techniques in the pure silicon gas such as the pure silane gases identified above may be hydrogen and nitrogen which are the components of the other reactant NH typically used for growing silicon nitride. The silane gas may also be passed through purification media to reduce for example the concentration of oxygen containing species to for example less than about one part per billion.

The use of such a pure silicon gas source may facilitate reducing the level of impurities at for example the interface between the Group III nitride layer and the SiN layer and or within the SiN layer which may in certain circumstances improve the performance and or reproducibility of the device. In particular the higher quality i.e. more pure SiN layer may help reduce or minimize trapping within the body of the insulative layer thereby providing a higher breakdown critical field. When such a pure silicon gas source is included with the reactor it may still be desirable to include a second silicon source as well that is used as the dopant gas source during the growth of for example an n doped or co doped Group III nitride layer.

When doping Group III nitride layers with silicon the silicon source concentration and pressure combined with feasible flow and dilution rates may be selected to result in low enough silicon transport into the reactor compared to the Group III species such that the desired doping concentration is achieved. In contrast pursuant to embodiments of the present invention for the growth of silicon nitride the silicon source concentration and pressure combined with feasible flow and dilution rates may be selected to result in a high enough silicon transport into the reactor to achieve a growth rate capable of depositing in excess of 100 nm of silicon nitride in for example 1 hour as this may facilitate for example rapid encapsulation of the underlying Group III nitride layers thereby reducing and or preventing significant etching and or contamination. Such expedited growth rates may also reduce the effects of reactor background doping i.e. the incorporation of background impurities from the reactor into the silicon nitride layer .

As noted above pursuant to embodiments of the present invention HEMT transistors with in situ grown silicon nitride protective layers are provided. The silicon nitride may be grown for example at a growth rate of about 2 microns hour. A predominantly nitrogen atmosphere may be used to reduce hydrogen incorporation. In growing the silicon nitride layer the same growth conditions used to grow the last underlying layer may be used to permit immediate switching from the Group III nitride growth to growth of the silicon nitride layer. A growth temperature of for example 1000 C. may be used both for the underlying Group III nitride e.g. AlGaN layer and for the growth of the silicon nitride layer.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to an example and comparative examples. It will be appreciated that these examples shall be regarded as merely illustrative and shall not be construed as limiting the invention.

The semiconductor layers of a Group III nitride based HEMT transistor were grown via MOCVD growth and a SiN layer using pure silane and NHsource gases was grown in situ at high temperature on the Group III nitride barrier layer of the HEMT transistor. Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry SIMS analysis with a Cs ion beam was performed on the SiN layer to measure the concentrations of H O C F and Cl in the SiN layer. The results of the SIMS analysis are listed in Table 1 below.

SiN layers were also grown in three comparative examples using two different growth techniques. In Comparative Example 1 the SiN layer was grown ex situ via sputtering using a SEGI tool that uses a pulsed DC power source with a process pressure of about 3 mT. The power source reverses bias polarity periodically e.g. 80 to 150 kHz 1000 to 2000 ns to discharge insulating particles that build up on the target thus avoiding arcs. In Comparative Example 2 the SiN layer was grown ex situ via PECVD using a UNAXIS Model 790 PECVD tool at 350 C. In each of the comparative examples SIMS analysis was used to measure the concentrations of H O C F and Cl in the SiN layer of the device grown. The results of these SIMS analyses are listed in Table 2 below.

As can be seen by comparing the results in Table 1 with the results in Table 2 the SiN layer fabricated according to embodiments of the present invention in Example 1 has significantly lower overall impurity levels as compared to the SiN layers grown in Comparative Examples 1 and 2. With one exception the H impurity levels the impurity levels recorded in Example 1 are generally one to three orders of magnitude smaller than the impurity levels realized in each of Comparative Examples 1 and 2. Even with respect to hydrogen impurities the SiN layer of Example 1 exhibits H levels that are nearly an order of magnitude better than the H levels in Comparative Example 2 and approximately the same as the H level in Comparative Example 1. Thus the results of Tables 1 and 2 show that pursuant to embodiments of the present invention HEMT transistors having SiN layers with significantly reduced impurity levels may be provided.

Another measure of the purity of the silicon nitride layers produced according to embodiments of the present invention is the Buffered Oxide Etch BOE etch rate of the layers. As is known to persons of skill in the art highly pure silicon nitride layers exhibit very low BOE etch rates such as BOE etch rates of less than about 10 Angstroms per minute. In contrast PECVD silicon nitride may have a BOE etch rate on the order of about 100 Angstroms per minute and sputtered silicon nitride may have a BOE etch rate on the order of about 1000 Angstroms or more per minute.

Pursuant to further embodiments of the present invention Group III nitride based HEMT transistors are provided which may have reduced pit densities at the top surface of the uppermost Group III nitride layer in the device. is an Atomic Force Microscopy AFM photograph of the top surface of the uppermost Group III nitride layer of a HEMT transistor where a silicon nitride protective layer was grown at high temperature in situ via MOCVD on the uppermost Group III nitride layer using a high purity silane gas source and NH. With the device depicted in the silicon nitride layer was removed after the device was taken out of the reactor and no other post growth processing was performed. As can be seen in no pits are visible on the upper surface of the uppermost Group III nitride layer.

As shown in the top surface of the uppermost Group III nitride layer in the HEMT transistor according to embodiments of the present invention has no discernible enlarged pits within the exposed area of the uppermost Group III nitride layer. Pursuant to embodiments of the present invention uppermost Group III nitride layers having a pit density of less than about 0.25 pits mmay be provided. In other embodiments uppermost Group III nitride layers having significantly further reduced pit densities e.g. pit densities of less than about 0.01 pits mor pit densities of less than about 0.01 pits m may be provided. It will be understood that herein the term pit density refers to the density of pits per unit area that have a diameter of about 15 nm or more i.e. the pits that are discernible on a 2 micron by 2 micron AFM scan .

As a comparative example show devices that were formed that correspond to the devices of except that the silicon nitride layer in the devices of were formed ex situ. As shown in the top surface of the uppermost Group III nitride layer in the comparative example has a relatively high density of enlarged pits within the 2 micron by 2 micron square i.e. about 12 enlarged pits or a pit density of about 3 pits m . The device depicted in has a comparable pit density. Thus B A and B show that pursuant to embodiments of the present invention the pit density in the uppermost Group III nitride layer may be reduced.

Without intending to be bound by any theory of operation one possible reason for the significant reduction in pit density that may be achieved in HEMT transistors according to certain embodiments of the present invention is that the inclusion of an in situ grown SiN protective layer may act to retard formation of pits in the Group III nitride layers. In particular such pits may form for example as a result of dislocations that extend through the Group III nitride layers to the surface thereof. During cooling the dislocations at the surface may further open resulting in pits. The larger pits shown in e.g. 50 nm diameter may be associated with the threading dislocations whereas the smaller pits are usually associated with pure edge dislocations. By forming a SiN layer in situ immediately upon completion of the growth of the Group III nitride layers or before significant cooling of the Group III nitride layers has occurred it may be possible to reduce and or minimize pit formation. It will be understood that the Group III nitride layers grown according to embodiments of the present invention may still have threading and edge dislocations but may have significantly reduced pitting from such dislocations This reduction in the pit density at for example the interface between an AlGaN barrier layer and a SiN protective layer may facilitate along with other factors reducing increases in the sheet resistance of the channel from the sheet resistance of the channel as grown and can also improve the reproducibility of the HEMT transistor. It is also believed that the reduction in pits can also reduce gate leakage currents in Group III nitride devices such as HEMT transistors and or increase the reliability of the devices.

Pursuant to embodiments of the present invention the silicon nitride protective layer may have a thickness of at least about 200 or about 250 Angstroms. In certain embodiments of the present invention substantially thicker SiN protective layers e.g. about 1000 Angstroms may be provided which may result in further enhancement to the performance and reproducibility characteristics of the device. In some embodiments of the present invention the performance of the device improves with increasing thickness of the silicon nitride protective layer.

Pursuant to further embodiments of the present invention sacrificial high purity SiN layers may be grown in situ on various Group III nitride semiconductor devices such as laser diodes LEDs MIM photodetectors etc. before cool down of the device from the growth temperature of the Group III nitride layers. As noted above this technique may reduce the formation of pits on the upper surface of the uppermost Group III nitride layer. Following removal of the device from the reactor the sacrificial SiN layer may be removed.

SiN layers fabricated according to certain embodiments of the present invention may be particularly useful in HEMT transistor applications but may also be used in a variety of other Group III nitride devices that include protective or passivation layers and or encapsulation. Devices in which the SiN layers according to certain embodiments of the present invention may be used include Group III nitride based laser diodes and LEDs MIM photodetectors MESFETs etc. In certain embodiments of the present invention the SiN layer may be a sacrificial layer that is grown to protect an underlying layer but then removed in subsequent processing steps.

While embodiments of the present invention have been described primarily above with respect to silicon nitride layers in other embodiments of the present invention the silicon nitride layer may be replaced with another insulating layer. Examples of such other insulating layers include boron nitride alumina silicon oxide magnesium oxide possibly with beryllium or calcium added as well diamond and silicon oxynitride. The use of such in situ formed insulating layers on Group III nitride HEMPTS and other Group III nitride semiconductor devices may provide the above described improvements in pit densities sheet resistance and or other characteristics of the devices.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms have been employed they have been used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

