---

title: Operations management using communications and collaboration platform
abstract: A collaboration service operation method provides an efficient and flexible method for operating services implemented across multiple systems. In particular, the method includes determining a change in a master record, and determining the nature of the change. Based on the nature of the change, the method further determines services to be implemented according to business rules and also determines to which systems the services will be implemented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08566397&OS=08566397&RS=08566397
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08566397
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20110131
---
This application claims the priority benefit of Provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 389 837 filed on Oct. 5 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application is related to Non Provisional U.S. Patent Application entitled Data Migration Using Communications Collaboration Platform assigned Ser. No. 13 018 079 filed on the same date as the present application which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to a platform for delivering and operating network transformation and collaboration among different systems.

Tools for increasing productivity such as for example word processors spreadsheets and instant messengers have been available to businesses to help increase efficiencies of business operations. Such tools operated independently with respect to each other and were installed in a single machine. Therefore different tools had to be purchased and installed onto the same machine to take advantage of different functionalities. As businesses became larger and their operations more complex the number of tools required increased and the tools became more difficult to manage. To address this issue productivity suites were developed such that various tools were provided in a single package and enabled interoperability between the tools.

However as businesses became more and more dependent on the Internet a need arose for the tools to be accessible from anywhere on the Internet or other computer networks. Existing tools were installed on local machines and access to these tools over the Internet was limited. To address this issue various tools have been offered as a software as a service SaaS enabling the functionalities of the tools to be provided to anyone having access to the Internet without having to install the tools on local machines. However these SaaS tools had limitations since they operated independently of each other necessitating businesses to access different SaaS tools to achieve different functionalities.

A Communications and Collaboration C2 Platform provides a seamless layer on top of multiple software as a service SaaS models cloud based systems legacy equipment and or other types of systems which allows enhanced management of operation and automation of deployment of business offerings. The C2 Platform allows businesses to operate across the different systems. The C2 Platform provides an interface through which different systems may communicate thereby allowing a user or a third party application the ability to receive services provided by the different platforms.

The C2 Platform allows seamless operation of services provisioned across the multiple systems. The C2 Platform provides adaptors libraries business rules and or other tools that detect a common operational activity determines services to be provisioned and systems affected by the common operational activity and orchestrates the affected systems to the provisioned services to the systems. The C2 Platform may further meter the provisioned services to provide various metrics such as for example usage records and bills. The C2 Platform may also diagnose problems that may occur to the services and provide a fix or suggest solutions.

The C2 Platform further helps efficient and automated migration from one system to another system for example from legacy systems to cloud based systems. The C2 Platform provides adaptors libraries business rules and or other tools that extract the data from various systems for example legacy systems cleanses them formats and places them in the desired systems. The C2 Platform may also perform automatic testing of the migrated data such as for presence contact centers voicemail etc.

The data and the functionality of one system may also be migrated and spread out over multiple systems. For example telephony functionality and contacts may be implemented in one system while office and email functionality may be implemented by a second system call routing functionality implemented in a third system and common metering functionalities in a fourth system. The C2 Platform allows businesses to manage and operate the functionalities spread across multiple systems such as described above. The C2 Platform thus provides the connectors adaptors workflows and processes necessary to provide these management and operation functionalities.

The C2 Platform also provides network operation center NOC integration help desk integration automated extraction and insertion across distributed systems. The C2 Platform further provides functionalities for operating and provisioning services directly as changes are made to master records such as lightweight directory access protocol LDAP moving services seamlessly from being on premise to being cloud based or vice versa and providing component services collaboration primitives or abstractions that can be more easily consumed. In addition the C2 Platform provides functionalities for automatically testing the end to end system including routing and bandwidth quality. The C2 Platform provides client applications or users easy access to the component services such that these services may be provided in a collaborative manner.

An operations management method using the C2 Platform includes determining that a modification is made in a master record and determining a nature of the modification. The method further includes determining one or more services to be provisioned based on the nature of the modification determining one or more target systems in which to implement the determined one or more services and communicating with the determined one or more target systems to implement the determined one or more services.

Other systems methods and features will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and features be included within this description be within the scope of the disclosure and be protected by the following claims.

As discussed in more detail below the C2 Platform allows communication between multiple like type systems such as between two On Premise Systems between two Cloud Systems and or between two Legacy Systems. And the C2 platform allows communication between multiple different type systems such as between an On Premise System and a Cloud System between an On Premise System and a Legacy System and or between a Cloud System and a Legacy System. is merely provided for illustration purposes. The system may include each of the one or more On Premise Systems the one or more Cloud Systems and the one or more Legacy Systems. Or the system may include fewer systems than that illustrated in such as only On Premise Systems and Cloud Systems.

Specific examples of such systems supported by the C2 Platform may be for example Hosted Collaboration Solution HCS system by Cisco Business Productivity Online Standard system by Microsoft and Accenture Contact Center Consolidation Infrastructure CCCI . The C2 Platform may provide a layer on top of these various types of systems which allows for automated migration of functionalities and or data provided by any system to any other single system or spread out over multiple systems.

The operation group may include functionalities such as metering billing audit end user self service metrics analysis Business Rules Processes and alerting monitoring . The operations group may further include lightweight directory access protocol LDAP integration such as for example Active Directory AD integration not shown . Metering billing and metrics analysis allow the C2 Platform to meter and analyze the usage of the provisioned services and provide billing functionalities. Metering billing may be implemented for example with a solution provided by ISI . Audit allows the C2 Platform to audit the usage of provisioned services for billing. For example where a user has 300 licenses for a service but is in fact using 400 then the audit may reveal this fact. Audit may also reveal other useful information such as for example the number of concurrent users per month. End user self service allows a user to perform administrative tasks on the C2 Platform. End user self service may be implemented for example using an administrative user portal . Business Rules Processes may include predefined business rules and processes which the C2 Platform may implement to provide services implemented through the C2 Platform. The business rules may include operational changes that may happen to the system such as move add change and delete MACD . Business rules processes may be implemented with for example business process management products such as for example Cordys . Alerting monitoring allows the C2 Platform to monitor the activities of the various systems and issue alerts if predefined conditions are met.

Transformation group and operations group may further include management functionality which may allow managers to provision and manage their own services which may be supported by the C2 Platform.

The functionalities provided by the capabilities layer may be implemented for example using Virtual Service Exchange VSX By Cicso which includes a business process management engine a business rules engines and portals. The functionality illustrated in is merely for illustration purposes. Other functionality is contemplated to allow the C2 Platform to facilitate communication between the various systems illustrated in .

The C2 Platform may be in communication with various systems to implement services or migrate transform the systems. Such systems may be on premise type systems which may store independent tools from vendors such as Cisco not shown cloud based systems such as for example hosted collaboration solution systems by Cisco office suite systems such as for example the business productivity online standard BPOS services from Microsoft and or other legacy systems from vendors such as for example Avaya Nadel and Cisco .

The cloud based system may include functionalities such as internet telephony IPT Cisco Unified Presence Server CUPS contact center CC email such as Unity and desktop phone and instant messaging integration product such as Cisco Unified Communications Integrated with Microsoft Office Communicator CUCIMOC . The office suite system may include functionalities such as knowledge management and document repository which may be Microsoft SharePoint SP . The office suite system may further include office tools word processors spread sheets etc. office communications server OCS for providing chat and instant messaging IM cloud based services such as Live and calendar. One example of a cloud based system may include CCCI from Accenture . System may include functionalities such as IPT voice portals such as Cisco voice portal CVP contact center solutions such as unified contact center enterprise UCCE and computer telephony integration object server CTIOS . System may further include a community information generating system such as Innovation Grapevine IGV and White Space from Accenture . Legacy systems may include functionalities such as IPT and CC.

The infrastructure abstraction layer allows the C2 Platform to communicate with external systems such as cloud based system office suite system and or legacy systems . The infrastructure abstraction layer abstracts data services handled by the C2 Platform using the service definition language SDL to a common informational model CIM such that data services that are implemented using different programming languages and data models may be easily converted from one to another. CIM is described below in more detail with reference to .

The C2 Platform may be a single platform for both delivering and operating network transformation projects including Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN HCS telepresence Social Media and Process Driven Collaboration. The C2 Platform may automate improve and standardize complex tasks and may provide additional functionality for greater agility and easier management.

The functionalities provided by the management and delivery layer capabilities layer and services provisioned through these layers may be made accessible to third party application. In this way third party applications may gain access to services provisioned in the underlying systems such as the cloud based systems office suite systems or legacy systems communicating via the management and delivery layer and the capabilities layer without having to directly connect to the underlying systems individually. In other words third party applications need to interact with only a single interface the C2 Platform to access the services provided by the underlying systems. Third party application accessibility may be provided by service widgets which are described in more detailed below with reference to .

The C2 Platform may also communicate with various systems such as on premise system cloud based system office suite system and other systems via adaptors. Adaptors translate communications between the C2 Platform which may use CIM and the various systems which may use data model other than CIM for implementing services . Some adaptors for example adaptors A and B may be compatible with multiple types of management solutions for running various systems. For example adaptor A may support United Customer Management Solutions UCMS which may be compatible with on premise systems and cloud based system . Adaptor B may support system management solution provided by VOSS . Adaptor B may also be compatible with on premise system and cloud based system . Adaptor C may support a native management solution for running a specific office suite system such as BPOS. Cloud based system may only be compatible with an adaptor D supporting a system management solution by Exony . Other systems may also only be communicable via adaptors supporting their own native system management solutions such as Adaptor E . The C2 Platform may also be implemented to communicate directly with predetermined systems without any adaptors. Further an adaptor F may be provided to convert extracted data into the CIM .

The service integration layer provides the framework and libraries for connecting services such as cloud and premise based communication and collaboration products to the service management layer and for running them on a network connection layer. The framework and libraries may act as an interface for connecting individual services such as HCS into the service management layer . The service management layer provides the automation processing and orchestration that may bring the majority of delivery and operational savings and risk management allowed by the C2 Platform. The service management layer accelerates deployment and provides a simplified interface for complicated composite operational changes.

As shown in the C2 Platform may include one or more embedded tools or service widgets such as for example unified communications UC A V conferencing social tools contact center CC and process tools. Service widgets are bundles of functions for providing services. These functions may be abstracted from the underlying systems that are actually implementing the services. For example these bundles of functions may be defined in CIM and may represent in abstracted forms the actual services implemented in the underlying systems. In an embodiment service widgets may be implemented in SDL. Using SDL the C2 Platform may read the functions defined in CIM and translate the functions such that communication with the underlying systems is made possible. In other words CIM allows the C2 Platform to abstract the services provided by different underlying systems into a single data model such that the C2 Platform may efficiently manage these services without worrying about the different protocols or syntaxes the underlying systems may use.

Service widgets may be hosted on the C2 Platform and may represent various business functions or services. For example the service widget may be a bundle of functions which together represent a UC service. Third party applications wanting to use the UC services may simply access the C2 Platform to call the service widget to utilize the UC services rather than having to access the system actually hosting the UC services. Third party applications may likewise access the C2 Platform and call the service widget corresponding to the necessary services to use those services. Therefore the service widgets allow the third party applications to access the required services simply by connecting a single interface the C2 Platform for all the desired services rather than individually connecting to the underlying systems for each service.

Business rules may define which specific functions are included in the bundle to form a specific service represented by a service widget . The business rules may also define which systems are actually implementing the functions of the service widget . In the example of the UC service represented by service widget the functions of the serviced widget IPT Presence and Chat may be implemented in separate systems such as on premise cloud based office suite or legacy systems. However when a third party application calls the service widget the C2 Platform may handle the necessary communications with these systems based on the business rules to provide the services of the service widget . In this way the third party application does not need to worry about communicating with the underlying systems on which the actual UC services are implemented.

The service widgets may be configured by the business rules such that a certain type of service or a function of the service may be implemented at a certain underlying system. For example the business rules may require that the IPT function of the service widget be provided by a cloud based system such as HCS. The business rules may also require that the chat function may always be provided by an office suite system such as BPOS. However a manager may change such configuration by changing the business rules. A management portal may be used to make such change in configuration. For example a dropdown menu may be provided at the management portal in which the manager may select an available underlying system which may implement a certain type of service. For example where the IPT function has been previously configured to be implemented on a first type of cloud based system HCS the manager may be able to select a second type of cloud based system such as for example CCCI as the new system implementing the IPT function. Such selection may be done by accessing the management portal and selecting the menu CCCI from a dropdown menu showing a list of available systems for implementing the IPT function. When selection for a new system to implement the IPT function is made configuration is changed such that the C2 Platform communicates with the newly selected system CCCI in the above example for the IPT functions instead of the existing system HCS in the above example . At the same time business rules may trigger a migration logic such as one described with reference to below in case the change in configuration requires data to be migrated to the new system. In the example above the change in the system providing the IPT function may require migration of data such as user information and telephone numbers to the new system. In such case the migration logic may transfer the user information and telephone numbers to the new system.

The C2 Platform may further include the network connection layer or connectivity layer . The connectivity layer allows a business as well as its partners and suppliers to connect to the C2 Platform through a secure and regulated channel by using hardware and or software such as for example an appliance router or installed gateway software. This connection allows secure communications remote diagnostics and the ability to download additional collaboration software into local environments. Connectivity to the C2 Platform may be Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and Sarbanes Oxley Act HIPAA SOX compliant and may ensure that data is completely secure.

Collectively these layers provide automation standardization and improved communication between different systems. For example on a deployment of a cloud based system such as HCS the C2 Platform may transfer information from legacy PBX infrastructure to new Call Managers automatically cleanse data by comparing to payroll and a master record such as AD records automate testing and allow most work to be performed off site. Operationally the C2 Platform may provide the interface to more efficiently handle add change remove requests and quickly detect outages and quality issues.

In addition to or instead of the functionality described above the C2 Platform may facilitate services being run and managed either on or off premise or as a combination of both. As an example solutions which may be required or preferred to be on premise such as TelePresence or those which a business requires or prefers to be on premise such as Contact Center may be installed locally but remotely managed and operated through the C2 Platform via network operation centers NOCs . In the case where Contact Center or other applications are run locally because of business requirements or preferences they may be transferred directly to off premise infrastructure through the C2 Platform if business requirements or preferences change. Further the C2 Platform may allow the business to add additional services on demand through a service catalog. For instance a business might not currently require solutions such as for example Cisco s Expert Advisor for Call Centers or Accenture s Collaborative Innovation Solution ACIS for crowd sourced idea generation. These changes may be made using the management portal . Thus using the C2 Platform these solutions may quickly be provisioned and managed as business requirements or preferences change. Finally the C2 Platform may provide the libraries and capabilities necessary to embed these capabilities directly into business processes and applications.

The C2 Platform may be hosted in a single site or in multiple sites. For example a primary C2 Platform may be hosted in San Jose Calif. while a secondary C2 Platform may be hosted in Washington D.C. One or both of C2 Platform and C2 Platform may be in communication with client premises through the Internet via Internet Service Providers ISPs . Services such as Interactive Call Routing ICR may be implemented at the client premises and may be in communication with the C2 Platform. The client premises may use servers such as Unified Compute System UCS by Cisco . In an embodiment systems or adaptors may be installed on the client s on premise systems to be compatible with the C2 Platform. The C2 Platform may also communicate with a datacenter which may host services delivered to clients various XaaS anything as a service services such as for example unified communications as a service UCaaS converged communication as a service CCaaS and Accenture collaborative innovation solution ACIS . The datacenter may also provide a Tier 2 service support support from someone with mid level technological understanding who can help trouble shoot problems. The C2 Platform may further be in communication with a NOC through the network . The NOC may provide Tier 1 support to users for XaaS services and the C2 Platform. Tier 1 support is support from a help desk person for example someone with an entry level technological understanding who may provide support for basic and or common issues.

The telephony migration service may be defined to execute a series of common tasks in order to migrate the telephony services from a system of client X to a new system. These common tasks may be for example migrate IPT users migrate IPT numbers setup voice mail and change voice mail size . The migration service may call these common tasks in series to execute the tasks. These common tasks may be defined in CIM . Different services supported by the C2 Platform may be similarly defined such that common tasks supported by the different services are all defined in CIM . In an embodiment the service definition language SDL may be used to translate the tasks defined in CIM to a format understandable by the underlying systems and execute the tasks. However any other programming languages may be used.

As the common tasks and are executed data may be migrated from one system specific system to another specific system . For example the common task may define instructions for migrating the IPT users from system to system . The instructions may include extracting the IPT user data from system processing the extracted IPT user data and inserting and inserting the processed IPT user data into the system . Similar instructions may be defined for common tasks to migrate the IPT numbers. SDLs may translate the tasks defined in CIM to communicate with system and system and execute these tasks. Similarly SDL may translate the tasks and to communicate with system and system and execute the tasks.

Through the above functionality the C2 Platform may automate and improve many of the manual steps in large scale network transformations such as a telephone network from comparing existing dial plans against a master record performing network changes and updates to testing a successful migration. For example a consultant may enter a portal provided by the C2 Platform and select a migration package for the client business entering in basic client information. Once the new client engagement is created the consultant may step through the billing process built into the C2 Platform. After entering the relevant billing information the consultant may then begin to define the migration process. Once the migration process begins the telephone automatically reboots and begins the process of migrating to a new common entry instance. The migrating phone is not simply switching from one system to another. The C2 Platform may actually remove information from the legacy system compare it with the master list format the information into the new format and upload the configuration.

The C2 Platform may receive a request to migrate data from an existing system to a new system . The existing system may be a legacy system or any other type of system. For purposes of explaining the migration logic the existing system will be referred to as a previous system and the new system to which to migrate will be referred to as a target system. The target system may be a single system or may be multiple systems. Next the C2 Platform may determine and access business rules for performing the requested migration . The business rules accessed may be the transformation migration rules or a separate business rule stored in the database . Based on the business rules the C2 Platform may determine and retrieve a matching adaptor an adaptor which may translate the communication to the target system . The matching adaptor may be retrieved from a local memory or from a database. The database may be for example the database .

Using the adaptor the C2 Platform may extract data from the existing system . The extraction may be performed by pulling the data from the existing system using the adaptor. Next the C2 Platform may access a master record with which to compare the extracted data . The master record may be an LDAP directory such as an AD. Next a comparison is made between the extracted data and the master record . Based on the business rules or other predetermined criteria the C2 Platform may either recommend or require changes to be made to the extracted data . If changes are recommended or required the C2 Platform may make the required changes . The C2 Platform may also allow a user to review the result of the comparison made during step and manually make the recommendations or requirements to change data. After making any changes during step or if no changes are recommended or required the C2 Platform may receive additional changes to be made to the extracted data . For example a user may wish to customize extracted data so that it does not comply with the master record or predefined business rules. In such a case the C2 Platform may allow the user to make additional changes to allow for such customization. Further the user may be allowed to approve or reject changes and or recommendations automatically made by the C2 Platform. Next one or more target systems to which the extracted data will be migrated to are determined . The target system may be a single system or may be multiple systems. In the case of multiple target systems how the data will be distributed among the target systems may also be determined. Next data are migrated to a target system . Afterwards in the case of multiple target systems the C2 Platform may determine whether any additional target systems are remaining to which to migrate the data . If target systems remain the migration logic is repeated from step . If no target systems are remaining the migration logic ends.

The C2 Platform may also provide a portal interface allowing end users to manage their own move add change and or delete requests. In the telephony context users can create new phone lines change existing phone lines update configurations and other requests.

The C2 Platform may identify a common operational activity based on a synchronized central record such as for example an LDAP directory . This LDAP directory may be an AD. Alternatively the C2 Platform may receive a user command for a common operational activity . Common operational activities may be for example adding one or more employees to the AD promoting an employee and removing an employee from AD. Next the C2 Platform may identify a predefined business rule corresponding to the common operational activity of steps or . The C2 Platform may optionally identify a profile associated with the operational activity . The profile may be for example user profiles of users associated with the operational activity. The profile may include information about a user and specific services which may be provisioned for or provided to the user. Next the C2 Platform determines the services to provision based on the identified business rules and any additional identified profiles . For example if a profile is identified the business rules may cause the C2 Platform to examine the profile to determine if the profile specifies additional services to provision. The AD business rules and the profile information may be stored in a database . The C2 Platform orchestrates the provisioning of the services determined in step across different systems . Depending on the business rules the systems involved may be a single system or multiple systems. After the services are provisioned the C2 Platform may additionally monitor the services based on predefined business rules . In addition to the business rules or in the alternative the C2 Platform may monitor services based on a user input . Based on the monitoring performed by step the C2 Platform may produce metrics such as usage records bill etc. . The C2 Platform may also diagnose problems and provide a fix . If a fix may not be immediately provided by the C2 Platform suggestions for a solution may be provided to the user.

The operation logic may be stored in a memory and may be executed by a processor. The memory may be located locally with the C2 Platform or may be stored remotely and accessible through a network. The operation logic may be incorporated with the business rules processes described with reference to may be implemented as a separate business rule stored in the database or as other types of computer instructions stored in a computer readable memory. The operation logic is described in detail below.

The C2 Platform may detect a change made in a database . The database may be an LDAP directory such as AD. As discussed above with reference to the AD may be synchronized with the C2 Platform such that changes may be easily detected. The C2 Platform may periodically monitor the database or receive notification from the database if a change is made to the database. If a change is detected the C2 Platform may determine the nature of the change . The nature of the change may be for example an insertion of an entry a removal of an entry or a modification of an entry in the database. The nature of the change may further include the type or contents of entries inserted or removed. The C2 Platform may access business rules which may correspond to the determined nature of the change . The business rules may be for example the business rules processes . Specifically the database may be changed to add a new employee remove an employee or to change one or more aspects of an employee such as change in position title work hours salary phone number email address etc. .

The change may also be to one or more business rules. For example a rule may specify a change to an existing service. In particular the rule change may specify that a certain group e.g. all attorneys receive a change in a currently provided service such as increasing the maximum amount of e mail storage from 100 MB to 200 MB . The C2 platform may review the user profiles for one some or all of the employees to determine which of the user profiles are affected by the rule change such as which profiles include a tag indicating the employee is an attorney . As another example a change may be made to the rules such that a new service is provided or an old service is removed. In particular the rule change may specify that attorneys not receive IM service in addition to phone and email.

Next the C2 Platform may determine which services to provision . The determination may be made based on the nature of the determined change and the business rules accessed in step . The C2 Platform may further determine which system or systems to implement the services determined in step . The determination in step may be made based on the nature of the determined change and the business rules accessed in step . For example if the change is an addition of an employee the business rules may specify that the employee receive email IM and telephone service. Based on this rule systems for provisioning the email IM and telephone services may be determined such that the necessary services may be set up for the added employee in step . As an example the C2 platform may determine that a new employee has been added based on a new user profile being added to the system. The user profile may directly indicate the services to provide the new user such as telephony e mail etc. . Or the user profile may indirectly indicate the services to provide the new user such as indicating at least one aspect of the new user such as a job title with the job title indicating the services to provide the new user . One or more databases may further indicate which systems the C2 platform accesses to provide the services. For example a particular new user may work for Company X . A look up table may be used to determine which systems to provide for employees of Company X .

In the example of a change in the business rules when the rule is changed so that the attorney now receives 200 MB of storage the C2 Platform may determine the system which provisions the e mail service so that C2 Platform may communicate with the system to provision the updated service in step .

After the services and systems to provision are determined the C2 Platform may communicate with a determined system to provision the services . For example in the case of adding an employee discussed above the C2 Platform may communicate with a system for provisioning email to implement the email service. After a service is provisioned to a system the C2 Platform may determine whether or not there are services remaining which need to be provisioned . In the same example IM and telephone services would remain. If services are remaining the process repeats from step . In the same example the steps are repeated until the IM and telephone services are implemented. If all services determined in step have been provisioned then the operation logic ends.

In an embodiment after determining which services to provision in step the operation logic may perform the remaining steps by calling a service widget .

If human resources adds a new employee to an LDAP directory such as AD the C2 Platform which may be synchronized with the AD may identify that a new employee was added . Next the C2 Platform may identify and check against the business rules to determine which services to provision and with which capabilities . According to the determination made during step the C2 Platform may orchestrate the phone line and implement the provisioning as determined by the business rules . Call Manager voicemail Presence and other 3party applications may be setup according to the business rules. Such provisioning may be performed by calling a service widget which may be configured to represent a telephony setup service. Once everything has been provisioned the C2 Platform may meter and bill for the services consumed as users consume the services provided through the C2 Platform . The C2 Platform may also detect that a problem has occurred on the provisioned services. The C2 Platform may automatically diagnose the problem and provide a fix or suggest a solution . If the problem is software related the C2 Platform may provide a direct fix if the problem is hardware related the C2 Platform may suggest a solution to resolve the hardware issue.

As discussed above with reference to the C2 Platform may provide self service capabilities. Such self service capabilities may be implemented using the end user self service functionality implemented in the capabilities layer . For example the C2 Platform may provide an end user with a portal such as the administrative portal that allows the user to self administer their phone. For instance the end user can change the button template on his or her phone. The user can either choose from a pre selected template or manually configure the buttons themselves. Once the selection is made the phone buttons are immediately updated. This is one of the many examples of self service which may be available through the C2 Platform.

The services provided on the C2 Platform may go beyond telephony. Any services in a service catalog can easily provide users with tools to manage their services through a portal or even automate processes behind the scenes. For example the C2 Platform could allow a service that automatically provisions a new phone line for new employees whenever they are added to active directory and certain rules are met. The C2 Platform may provide a service catalog for businesses to pick and choose services to subscribe to such as for example the ACIS a crowd sourcing innovation application. When a service is ordered the C2 Platform may automatically create a secured connection between the client and the service provider and may provide access metering and billing.

The C2 Platform s ability to create a secure connection with a new location is described below. Through a portal a client may create a connection between two locations to gain access to a service in the service catalog by clicking and dragging on the screen. For example the service catalog may provide a listing of a plurality of services that are available. The client may select one or more of the services from the service catalog. With the ability to create this connection on demand clients can choose services from the service catalog and immediately gain access to them through the C2 Platform. In providing such ability the C2 Platform may utilize the SDLs. SDLs technically service into the C2 Platform which can then be combined into business services.

For example the C2 Platform may be integrated with crowd sourcing functionality such as for example ACIS which uses Web 2.0 technology and rich Internet applications to take an idea from early concept to execution readiness using mass collaboration between a large number of employees business partners or customers. In the context of ACIS multiple technical services may be necessary to create a new ACIS site. And end users only need a few business services such as creating modifying and deleting an ACIS site.

The C2 Platform allows automatic provisioning of appropriate services by using business rules. For example through the C2 Platform necessary services may be provisioned whenever new employees are added into active directory when employee s title or level changes or decommission services when an employee leaves the company.

An example of a provisioning in practice is described below. End users may enter their portal and choose to create a new ACIS site. Initially the end user may see that client s ACIS site does not exist. Once the user enters the necessary information in an administrative account the new ACIS site is dynamically created. If the user reloads the page the user may now see that the ACIS site has been provisioned and the user may log in with the user s newly created administrative account.

The implementation discussed above is exemplary. Other implementations may vary any of the supported systems of provided services noted above. For example other implementations may use different types of systems types of infrastructure hosting the C2 or types of supported widgets or supported tools.

The platform described above may be implemented in any combination of hardware and software. For example programs provided in software libraries may provide the functionality that forms the business rules workflows or other functions. Such software libraries may include dynamic link libraries DLLs or other application programming interfaces APIs . The logic described above may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a CDROM hard drive floppy disk flash memory or other computer readable medium. The logic may also be encoded in a signal that bears the logic as the signal propagates from a source to a destination.

In addition the platform may be implemented as a particular machine. For example the particular machine may include a central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU and software library for carrying out the functionality that forms the business rules workflows widgets or embedded tools or other functions noted above. Thus the particular machine may include a CPU a GPU and a memory that stores the logic described above.

While various embodiments of the disclosure have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the disclosure. Accordingly the disclosure is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

