---

title: Infrared light means for remotely controlling devices on a rotating weapon assembly, without physical contact
abstract: The invention relates to remotely controlling a number of devices on an instrument mounted on a rotating assembly without physical contact to the assembly. A series of infrared light-emitting diodes mounted in a stationary ring configuration are placed around (but not directly touching) the rotating assembly to send control signals to infrared receiver devices located on the assembly. The rotating assembly might be the turret of a conventional Common Remotely Operated Weapons Station (CROWS), the invention to replace convention internal slip-ring providing power and control to a gun on the CROWS. The infrared data links of this invention do not inhibit the movement of the rotating assembly, and further are not susceptible to radio-jamming by electronic warfare countermeasures. Additionally, the invention includes a mount that allows auxiliary devices with Picatinny Rails™ to also be attached to such a CROWS turret.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09250040&OS=09250040&RS=09250040
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 09250040
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110105
---
This application claims benefit under 35 USC 119 e of the filing date of Provisional Application No. 61 306 048 filed Feb. 19 2010 the entire file contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein as though fully set forth.

The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates to remotely controlling a number of devices mounted on rotating instrument assemblies without requiring direct physical contact to such rotating assemblies. An example of such a situation is the gun on the Kongsberg Common Remotely Operated Weapons Station CROWS . In past practice one could install a slip ring system of electrical contacts on the rotating assembly for passing control wires. Additionally one could also use an RF system for remote control. The former method requires physical contact between the rotating assembly and its surroundings possibly limiting its movement and requires the slip ring to be placed exactly coincident with the axis of rotation. The latter method is susceptible to radio jamming by electronic warfare countermeasures. There has therefore been a need for a means to remotely controlling a number of devices mounted on rotating instrument assemblies without physical contact and which is also not easily vulnerable to electronic warfare countermeasures.

The method uses a series of infrared light emitting diodes mounted in a stationary ring configuration around but not touching the rotating assembly to send control signals to infrared receivers located on the rotating assembly. For instance the turret of a Kongsberg Common Remotely Operated Weapons Station CROWS generally depicted in hereof conventionally comprises a rotating assembly. Currently an internal slip ring provides power and control to a gun on the CROWS. The instant invention will bypass the conventional slip ring arrangement instead using an infrared communications channel while still allowing an operator to control the same devices on the turret. The infrared data link of this invention does not inhibit the movement of the rotating assembly and it is also should not be susceptible to radio jamming by electronic warfare countermeasures.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a more physically dependable means for allowing an operator to selectively control devices such as a gun on the rotatable turret of a CROWS system without direct electrical or physical connection upon said CROWS system which might be susceptible to wear and misalignment errors.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a means for selectively controlling devices such as a gun on the turret of a CROWS system which system is not susceptible to radio jamming by electronic warfare countermeasures.

It is a further object of the present invention to include a Picatinny Rail mount means attached on a Kongsberg CROWS system to attach additional devices on the CROWS as may be desired according to this invention.

It is a yet another object of the present invention in general to provide a more physically dependable means for allowing an operator to selectively control devices on a rotatable instrument without direct electrical or physical connection upon said rotatable instrument which might be susceptible to wear and misalignment errors.

It is a still further object of the present invention in general to provide a more physically dependable means for allowing an operator to selectively control devices on a rotatable instrument without direct electrical or physical connection upon said rotatable instrument which might be susceptible to radio jamming by electronic warfare countermeasures.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention the claims and in light of the following drawings wherein reference numerals may be reused where appropriate to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation. It is also to be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention that have been described herein are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. It should further be understood that the geometry compositions values and dimensions of the components described herein can be modified within the scope of the invention and are not generally intended to be exclusive. Numerous other modifications can be made when implementing the invention for a particular environment without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

As shown in the invention includes a control box not completely shown in to toggle devices mounted on a rotating assembly the control box comprising a four momentary button user interface with one or more illuminated status lights a power switch and a connector for driving an external array of infrared LED s . Pressing a button triggers the response of an internal microcontroller for determining which button was pressed for illuminating or de illuminating an appropriate status light by toggling a status register for transmitting an appropriate signal through an external infrared LED array to a receiver box . A ring array for mounting directly around the rotating assembly is included and it has infrared LEDs thereon for transmitting an infrared signal to infrared sensors on IR sensor receivers mounted directly on the rotating assembly. The shape of the ring array facilitates continuous controllability by an operator at least one infrared sensor should always be within line of sight of an infrared LED transmitter . The ring array also facilitates mounting to a stationary item surrounding the rotating assembly such as mounting to the base of a CROWS system. A receiver section not completely shown has a receiver box for decoding commands sent by the control box and controlling the appropriate device on the assembly comprises two external infrared receivers one or more illuminated status lights a power switch and four two pin connectors attached to four internal reed relays each of which act to open and close a circuit of an attached device. Responses from the infrared sensors on IR sensor receivers trigger the response of a microcontroller which causes determining the validity of an incoming signal decoding the command issued and toggling an appropriate relay. The invention also provides for a mount that allows auxiliary devices with Picatinny Rails to be attached to a rotating assembly specifically the CROWS turret .

The microcontrollers in the control box and the receiver box are all like programmed in such way as to use the same command protocol. Any protocol can be used as long as it is within the capabilities of the microcontroller the infrared transmitters and the infrared receivers. All communication is one way only from the control box to the receiver box. The current protocol in use is described as follows As shown in the signal as transmitted by the control box and received by the receiver box consists of a frame 6 bits long a 1 start bit four bits indicating the toggle state of the four auxiliary devices and a 1 stop bit. A 1 bit is transmitted as a nominal 38 khz pulse carrier as long for a length of time of 50 cycles of the carrier on followed by at least 20 cycles of the carrier off. A 0 bit is transmitted as a 38 khz pulse carrier as short for a length of time of 25 cycles of carrier on followed by at least 20 cycles of carrier off. By default the receiver keeps all devices off. When a frame is received the receiver sets the states of the relays to match the toggle state contained in the frame. If another frame is not received within a specified time out interval all devices are turned off again. A frame is sent as soon as possible if a button is pressed. Additionally the control box sends a keep alive frame periodically as long as the toggle status of any one device is on . If they are all off or if the power to the control box is disconnected no frames will be sent and the receiver box will automatically turn all devices off. There are multiple alternative ways of construction for the device A two way communication system can be utilized by mounting infrared receivers alongside infrared LEDs and vice versa on both the ring array and receiver boxes. The communications protocol can be any combination of pulse code modulation pulse width modulation and pulse spacing modulation. It can also include any error correction schemes deemed necessary. shows a Kongsberg CROWS system having a stationary ring array installed according to this invention. shows the ring array around the turret of a Kongsberg CROWS system according to this invention and shows a Picatinny Rail mount for use on a Kongsberg CROWS system according to this invention.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

