---

title: Methods of treating female subjects in need of in vitro fertilization
abstract: Described herein are methods of treating a female subject in need of in vitro fertilization to become pregnant by detecting a loss of non-atretic follicles in the female subject and providing in vitro fertilization to the female subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09267111&OS=09267111&RS=09267111
owner: The General Hospital Corporation
number: 09267111
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110114
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 131 152 filed May 17 2005 abandoned which claims priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 572 222 filed on May 17 2004 provisional application Ser. No. 60 574 187 filed on May 24 2004 and U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 586 641 filed on Jul. 9 2004 the contents each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Each of the applications and patents cited in this text as well as each document or reference cited in each of the applications and patents including during the prosecution of each issued patent application cited documents and each of the PCT and foreign applications or patents corresponding to and or claiming priority from any of these applications and patents and each of the documents cited or referenced in each of the application cited documents are hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference and may be employed in the practice of the invention. More generally documents or references are cited in this text either in a Reference List before the claims or in the text itself and each of these documents or references herein cited references as well as each document or reference cited in each of the herein cited references including any manufacturer s specifications instructions etc. is hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The United States government has certain rights in this invention by virtue of grant numbers R01 AG12279 and R01 AG24999 from the National Institute on Aging and R01 ES08430 from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences of the National Institutes of Health.

This application contains a Sequence Listing that has been submitted electronically in ASCII text format and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII text format created on May 15 2015 is named 051588.00010 SL.txt and is 772 bytes in size.

A basic doctrine of reproductive biology which states that mammalian females lose the capacity for germ cell renewal during fetal life has only recently been successfully challenged by Johnson et al. 2004 Nature 428 145. Johnson et al. are the first to conclusively demonstrate that juvenile and adult mouse ovaries possess mitotically active germ cells that based on rates of oocyte degeneration and clearance sustain oocyte and follicle production in the postnatal mammalian ovary.

It has been recently determined that the precursors of germ cells are not confined exclusively to the ovaries. Germ cell marker genes have now been identified in cells derived from bone marrow. In addition transplantation of bone marrow to a conditioned host allowed for bone marrow cell development into new oocytes within the ovary.

Umbilical cord blood from newborn infants is a known reservoir of stem cells that may contribute to a variety of somatic cell lineages including hematopoietic precursors for reviews see Korbling and Anderlini 2001 98 2900 2908 Ho and Punzel 2003 73 547 555 Sanchez Ramos 2002 69 880 893 Lee 2004 103 1669 75 . Cord blood samples are easily and safely collected and may be stored for future therapeutic use Rogers and Casper 2004 2 64 70 further their availability to individual patients offers a potential source of perfectly matched donor cells. It was heretofore unknown whether peripheral blood such as cord blood also contained germ cell precursors.

Methods of the invention relate to the use of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells and their progenitor cells to among other things replenish or expand germ cell reserves of the testes and ovary to enhance or restore fertility and in females to ameliorate symptoms and consequences of menopause.

In one aspect the present invention provides compositions comprising peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells.

In one embodiment the present invention provides compositions comprising peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells wherein the cells are mitotically competent and express Vasa Dazl and Stella. Consistent with their mitotically competent phenotype peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells of the invention do not express growth differentiation factor 9 GDF 9 zona pellucida proteins e.g. zona pellucida protein 3 ZP3 histone deacetylase 6 HDAC6 and synaptonemal complex protein 3 SCP3 .

Upon transplantation into a host peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells of the invention can produce oocytes after a duration of at least 1 week more preferably 1 to about 2 weeks about 2 to about 3 weeks about 3 to about 4 weeks or more than about 5 weeks post transplantation.

In another aspect the present invention provides compositions comprising progenitor cells derived from peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells. In one embodiment the present invention provides compositions comprising peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell progenitors wherein the cells express Vasa Dazl and Stella and wherein the cells do not express GDF 9 zona pellucida proteins HDAC6 and SCP3. Upon transplantation into a host peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell progenitors of the invention can produce oocytes after a duration of less than 1 week preferably about 24 to about 48 hours post transplantation.

In one embodiment the present invention provides an isolated peripheral blood cell wherein the cell is mitotically competent and expresses Vasa Dazl and Stella. Preferably the cell is a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell having an XX karyotype. Preferably the peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells are non embryonic mammalian and even more preferably human.

In another embodiment the present invention provides purified populations of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and or their progenitor cells. In specific embodiments the purified population of cells is about 50 to about 55 about 55 to about 60 about 65 to about 70 about 70 to about 75 about 75 to about 80 about 80 to about 85 about 85 to about 90 about 90 to about 95 or about 95 to about 100 of the cells in the composition.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and or their progenitor cells and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The pharmaceutical compositions can comprise purified populations of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and or their progenitor cells.

Compositions comprising peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention can be provided by direct administration to ovarian tissue or indirect administration for example to the circulatory system of a subject e.g. to the extra ovarian circulation .

In yet another aspect the invention provides methods for manipulating peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells in vivo ex vivo or in vitro as described herein below.

In one embodiment the invention provides a method for expanding peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells in vivo ex vivo or in vitro comprising contacting peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells with an agent that increases the amount of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells by promoting proliferation or survival thereof thereby expanding the peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells. Such agents may promote mobilization of peripheral blood derived stem cells or of progenitor cells derived from peripheral blood derived stem cells from within the peripheral blood into the peripheral blood e.g. GCSF GMCSF . In a preferred embodiment the agent includes but is not limited to a hormone or growth factor e.g. insulin like growth factor IGF transforming growth factor TGF bone morphogenic protein BMP Wnt protein or fibroblast growth factor FGF a cell signaling molecule e.g. sphingosine 1 phosphate SIP or retinoic acid RA or a pharmacological or pharmaceutical compound e.g. an inhibitor of glycogen synthase kinase 3 GSK 3 an inhibitor of apoptosis such as a Bax inhibitor or a caspase inhibitor an inhibitor of nitric oxide production or an inhibitor of MAC activity .

In another embodiment the invention provides a method for identifying an agent that promotes proliferation or survival of a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell comprising contacting the peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells with a test agent and detecting an increase in the number of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells thereby identifying an agent that promotes proliferation or survival of a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell.

In yet another embodiment the invention provides a method for using the female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells to characterize pharmacogenetic cellular responses to biologic or pharmacologic agents comprising isolating peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells from a population of subjects expanding said cells in culture to establish a plurality of cell cultures optionally differentiating said cells into a desired lineage contacting the cell cultures with one or more biologic or pharmacologic agents identifying one or more cellular responses to the one or more biologic or pharmacologic agents and comparing the cellular responses of the cell cultures from different subjects.

In yet another embodiment the invention provides a method for oocyte production comprising culturing a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell in the presence of an agent that differentiates a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell into an oocyte thereby producing an oocyte. In a preferred embodiment the agent includes but is not limited to a hormone or growth factor e.g. a TGF BMP or Wnt family protein kit ligand SCF or leukemia inhibitory factor LIF a signaling molecule e.g. meiosis activating sterol FF MAS or a pharmacologic or pharmaceutical agent e.g. a modulator of Id protein function or Snail Slug transcription factor function .

In yet another embodiment the invention provides a method for in vitro fertilization of a female subject said method comprising the steps of 

In yet another embodiment the invention provides a method for in vitro fertilization of a female subject said method comprising the steps of

In yet another embodiment the invention provides a method for identifying an agent that induces differentiation of a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell into an oocyte comprising contacting peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells with a test agent and detecting an increase in the number of oocytes thereby identifying an agent that induces differentiation of a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for oocyte production comprising providing a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell to a tissue preferably the ovary wherein the cell engrafts into the tissue and differentiates into an oocyte thereby producing an oocyte.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for inducing folliculogenesis comprising providing a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell to a tissue preferably the ovary wherein the cell engrafts into the tissue and differentiates into an oocyte within a follicle thereby inducing folliculogenesis.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for treating infertility in a female subject in need thereof comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells to the subject wherein the cells engraft into a tissue preferably ovarian tissue and differentiate into oocytes thereby treating infertility. Except where expressly stated herein the female subject in need of fertility treatment is not a subject who has undergone prior chemotherapy or radiotherapy.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for restoring fertility to a female subject having undergone chemotherapy or radiotherapy or both treatments and who desires restored fertility comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells to the subject wherein the cells engraft into a tissue preferably ovarian tissue and differentiate into oocytes thereby restoring fertility in the subject. Preferably the peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells comprise a purified sub population of cells obtained from the peripheral blood. Chemotherapeutic drugs include but are not limited to busulfan cyclophosphamide 5 FU vinblastine actinomycin D etoposide cisplatin methotrexate doxorubicin among others. Radiotherapy includes but is not limited to ionizing radiation ultraviolet radiation X rays and the like.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for protecting fertility in a female subject undergoing or expected to undergo chemotherapy or radiotherapy or both treatments comprising providing an agent that protects against reproductive injury prior to or concurrently with chemotherapy or radiotherapy or both treatments and providing a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell to the subject wherein the cell engrafts into a tissue preferably ovarian tissue and differentiates into an oocyte thereby protecting fertility in the subject. The protective agent can be S1P a Bax antagonist or any agent that increases SDF 1 activity.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for repairing damaged ovarian tissue comprising providing a therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells to the tissue wherein the cells engraft into the tissue and differentiate into oocytes thereby repairing the damaged tissue. Damage can be caused for example by exposure to cytotoxic factors hormone deprivation growth factor deprivation cytokine deprivation cell receptor antibodies and the like. Except where expressly stated herein the damage is not caused by prior chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Damage can also be caused be diseases that affect ovarian function including but not limited to cancer polycystic ovary disease genetic disorders immune disorders metabolic disorders and the like.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for restoring ovarian function in a female subject having undergone chemotherapy or radiotherapy or both treatments and who desires restored ovarian function comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells to an ovary of the subject wherein the cells engraft into the ovary and differentiate into oocytes within the ovary thereby restoring ovarian function in the subject.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for restoring ovarian function in a menopausal female subject comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells to the subject wherein the cells engraft into the ovary and differentiate into oocytes thereby restoring ovarian function. The menopausal female subject can be in a stage of either peri or post menopause with said menopause caused by either normal e.g. aging or pathological e.g. surgery disease ovarian damage processes.

Restoration of ovarian function can relieve adverse symptoms and complications associated with menopausal disorders including but not limited to somatic disorders such as osteoporosis cardiovascular disease somatic sexual dysfunction hot flashes vaginal drying sleep disorders depression irritability loss of libido hormone imbalances and the like as well as cognitive disorders such as loss of memory emotional disorders depression and the like.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for detecting or diagnosing premature ovarian failure in a subject comprising determining the number of female germline stem cells or their progenitors present in a sample of peripheral blood obtained from the subject wherein the number of female germline stem cells or their progenitors in the sample is substantially less than the number of female germline stem cells or their progenitors in a sample obtained from a healthy subject thereby detecting or diagnosing premature ovarian failure in the subject.

Methods of the present invention can be used in the production of other reproductive cell types. Accordingly in yet another aspect the present invention provides compositions comprising peripheral blood derived male germline stem cells wherein the peripheral blood derived male germline stem cells are mitotically competent and express Vasa and Dazl. Peripheral blood derived male germline stem cells of the invention have an XY karyotype whereas peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells of the invention have an XX karyotype. Preferably the peripheral blood derived male germline stem cells are non embryonic mammalian and even more preferably human.

In one embodiment the invention provides an isolated peripheral blood cell that is mitotically competent has an XY kayrotype and expresses Vasa and Dazl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for restoring or enhancing spermatogenesis comprising providing a peripheral blood derived male germline stem cell or its progenitor cell to the testes of a male subject wherein the cell engrafts into the seminiferous epithelium and differentiates into a sperm cell thereby restoring or enhancing spermatogenesis.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for restoring fertility to a male subject having undergone chemotherapy or radiotherapy or both and who desires restored fertility comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of peripheral blood derived male germline stem cells or their progenitor cells to the subject wherein the cells engraft into the seminiferous epithelium and differentiate into sperm cells thereby restoring fertility.

In yet another embodiment the invention provides a method for reducing the amount of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells in vivo ex vivo or in vitro comprising contacting peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells with an agent that reduces cell proliferation thereby reducing the amount of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells. In a preferred embodiment the agent includes but is not limited to a hormone or growth factor e.g. TGF a peptide antagonist of mitogenic hormones or growth factors e.g. the BMP antagonists Protein Related to DAN and Cerberus PRDC and Gremlin or a pharmacological or pharmaceutical compound e.g. a cell cycle inhibitor or an inhibitor of growth factor signaling .

In yet another embodiment the invention provides a method for reducing the amount of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells in vivo ex vivo or in vitro comprising contacting peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells with an agent that inhibits cell survival or promotes cell death thereby reducing the amount of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells. In a preferred embodiment the agent the that inhibits cell survival includes but is not limited to a hormone growth factor or cytokine e.g. a pro apoptotic tumor necrosis factor TNF super family member such as TNF Fas ligand FasL and TRAIL an antagonist of pro survival Bcl 2 family member function a signaling molecule e.g. a ceramide or a pharmacological or pharmaceutical compound e.g. an inhibitor of growth factor signaling . In a preferred embodiment the agent the that promotes cell death includes but is not limited to a pro apoptotic tumor necrosis factor superfamily member e.g. TNF FasL and TRAIL agonist of pro apoptotic Bcl 2 family member function and ceramide.

In yet another embodiment the invention provides a method for identifying an agent that reduces proliferation or survival or promotes cell death of a peripheral blood derived germline stem cell or its progenitor cell comprising contacting peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells with a test agent and detecting a decrease in the number of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells thereby identifying an agent that reduces proliferation or survival or promotes cell death of a female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a method for contraception in a male or female subject comprising contacting peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells of the subject with an agent that decreases the proliferation function or survival of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells or the ability of said cells to produce new oocytes or sperm cells or other somatic cell types required for fertility thereby providing contraception to the subject.

In yet another aspect the present invention provides kits for use in employing various agents of the invention.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a kit for expanding a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell in vivo ex vivo or in vitro comprising an agent that promotes cell proliferation or survival of the peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell and instructions for using the agent to promote cell proliferation or survival of the peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor thereby expanding a female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell in accordance with the methods of the invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a kit for oocyte production comprising an agent that differentiates a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell into an oocyte and instructions for using the agent to differentiate a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor cell into an oocyte in accordance with the methods of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a kit for oocyte production comprising an agent that increases the amount of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells by promoting proliferation or survival thereof and instructions for using the agent to increase the amount of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells thereby producing oocytes in accordance with the methods of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a kit for oocyte production comprising an agent that differentiates peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells into oocytes and instructions for using the agent to differentiate the peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells into oocytes thereby producing oocytes in accordance with the methods of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a kit for treating infertility in a female subject in need thereof comprising an agent that increases the amount of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells by promoting proliferation or survival thereof and instructions for using the agent to increase the amount of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells thereby treating infertility in the subject in accordance with the methods of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a kit for treating infertility in a female subject in need thereof comprising an agent that differentiates peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells into oocytes and instructions for using the agent to differentiate peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells into oocytes thereby treating infertility in the subject in accordance with the methods of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a kit for protecting fertility in a female subject undergoing or expected to undergo chemotherapy or radiotherapy or both treatments comprising an agent that that protects peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells against reproductive injury and instructions for using the agent to protect peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells against reproductive injury thereby protecting fertility in the female subject in accordance with the methods of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a kit for restoring ovarian function in a post menopausal female subject comprising an agent that increases the amount of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells by promoting proliferation or survival thereof and instructions for using the agent to increase the amount of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells thereby restoring ovarian function in the subject in accordance with the methods of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a kit for restoring ovarian function in a post menopausal female subject comprising an agent that differentiates peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells into oocytes and instructions for using the agent to differentiate peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells into oocytes thereby restoring ovarian function in the subject in accordance with the methods of the invention.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a kit for reducing the amount of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells in vivo ex vivo or in vitro comprising an agent that inhibits cell survival or promotes cell death and instructions for using the agent to inhibit cell survival or promote cell death of the peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells thereby the reducing the amount of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells in accordance with the methods of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a kit for contraception in a male of female subject comprising an agent that decreases the proliferation function or survival of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells or the ability of said cells to produce new oocytes or other somatic cell types required for fertility and instructions for using the agent to decrease the proliferation function or survival of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells or the ability of said cells to produce new oocytes or sperm cells or other somatic cell types required for fertility thereby providing contraception to the subject in accordance with the methods of the invention.

 Peripheral blood derived germline stem cells are any multipotent cells obtained from peripheral blood that include a population of male or female germline stem cells.

 Expansion refers to the propagation of a cell or cells without terminal differentiation. Isolation phenotype refers to the structural and functional characteristics of the peripheral blood derived germline stem cells upon isolation. Expansion phenotype refers to the structural and functional characteristics of the peripheral blood derived germline stem cells during expansion. The expansion phenotype can be identical to the isolation phenotype or alternatively the expansion phenotype can be more differentiated than the isolation phenotype.

 Differentiation refers to the developmental process of lineage commitment. A lineage refers to a pathway of cellular development in which precursor or progenitor cells undergo progressive physiological changes to become a specified cell type having a characteristic function e.g. nerve cell muscle cell or endothelial cell . Differentiation occurs in stages whereby cells gradually become more specified until they reach full maturity which is also referred to as terminal differentiation. A terminally differentiated cell is a cell that has committed to a specific lineage and has reached the end stage of differentiation i.e. a cell that has fully matured . Oocytes are an example of a terminally differentiated cell type.

The term isolated as used herein refers to a peripheral blood derived germline stem cell or its progenitor cell in a non naturally occurring state e.g. isolated from the body or a biological sample such as peripheral blood from the body .

 Progenitor cells as used herein are germ lineage cells that are 1 derived from germline stem cells of the invention as the progeny thereof which contain a set of common marker genes 2 are in an early stage of differentiation and 3 retain mitotic capacity.

 Progeny as used herein are all cells derived from peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention including progenitor cells differentiated cells and terminally differentiated cells.

 Engraft refers to the process of cellular contact and incorporation into an existing tissue of interest e.g. ovary in vivo.

 Agents refer to cellular e.g. biologic and pharmaceutical factors preferably growth factors cytokines hormones or small molecules or to genetically encoded products that modulate cell function e.g. induce lineage commitment increase expansion inhibit or promote cell growth and survival . For example expansion agents are agents that increase proliferation and or survival of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells. Differentiation agents are agents that induce peripheral blood derived germline stem cells to differentiate into committed cell lineages such as oocytes or sperm cells.

A follicle refers to an ovarian structure consisting of a single oocyte surrounded by somatic granulosa without or with theca interstitial cells. Somatic cells of the gonad enclose individual oocytes to form follicles. Each fully formed follicle is enveloped in a complete basement membrane. Although some of these newly formed follicles start to grow almost immediately most of them remain in the resting stage until they either degenerate or some signal s activate s them to enter the growth phase. For reviews on ovarian structure function and physiology see Gougeon A. 1996 Endocr Rev. 17 121 55 Anderson L. D. and Hirshfield A. N. 1992 Md Med J. 41 614 20 and Hirshfield A. N. 1991 hit Rev Cytol. 124 43 101.

A sperm cell refers to a male germ cell in either a pre meiotic i.e. mitotically competent or post meiotic state of development including a fully mature spermatozoan. Spermatogenesis is the developmental process by which a sperm cell is formed.

 Mitotically competent refers to a cell that is capable of mitosis the process by which a cell divides and produces two daughter cells from a single parent cell.

A non embryonic cell refers to a cell that is obtained from a post natal source e.g. infant child or adult tissue .

A subject is a vertebrate preferably a mammal more preferably a primate and still more preferably a human. Mammals include but are not limited to primates humans farm animals sport animals and pets.

The term obtaining as in obtaining the agent is intended to include purchasing synthesizing or otherwise acquiring the agent or indicated substance or material .

The terms comprises comprising and are intended to have the broad meaning ascribed to them in U.S. Patent Law and can mean includes including and the like.

Methods of the invention relate to the use of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or progenitors of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells to restore or increase germ cell production. Methods of the invention can be used to among other things enhance or restore fertility and in females to ameliorate symptoms and consequences of menopause.

Without wanting to be bound by theory it is understood that one or more mechanisms can be involved with the ability of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells to repopulate the germ cell population. Female germline stem cells have been detected in the peripheral blood which may therefore serve as a reservoir for stem cells having the capacity to repopulate and or expand the germ cell supply of reproductive organs. Male germline stem cells can also exist in the peripheral blood of male subjects. Other sub populations of cells in the peripheral blood such as hematopoietic stem cells may likewise have the ability to repopulate and or expand the germ cell supply of reproductive organs for example through de differentiation into a multipotent progenitor cell see U.S. Pat. No. 6 090 625 Herzog E. L. et al. 2004 Blood 102 10 3483 which in turn migrates through peripheral blood to the reproductive tract engrafts into an organ e.g. ovary or testes as a germline stem cell or a progenitor of a germline stem cell and differentiates into a germ cell.

As described herein germline stem cells have been detected in the peripheral blood including cord blood of male and female subjects. Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells express markers including Vasa Dazl and Stella. Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells are mitotically competent i.e. capable of mitosis and accordingly do not express GDF 9 zona pellucida proteins e.g. ZP3 HDAC6 or SCP3.

The present invention also provides peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell progenitors. Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell progenitors of the invention can circulate throughout the body and most preferably can be localized in bone marrow peripheral blood and ovary. Progenitor cells of the invention express Vasa Dazl and Stella but do not express GDF 9 zona pellucida proteins e.g. ZP3 HDAC6 or SCP3.

Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitor cells have functional distinctions. Upon transplantation into a host peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells of the invention can produce oocytes after a duration of at least 1 week more preferably 1 to about 2 weeks about 2 to about 3 weeks about 3 to about 4 weeks or more than about 5 weeks post transplantation. Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell progenitors have the capacity to generate oocytes more rapidly than peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells. Upon transplantation into a host peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell progenitors of the invention can produce oocytes after a duration of less than 1 week preferably about 24 to about 48 hours post transplantation.

Stella is a gene expressed in peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitor cells. Stella is a novel gene specifically expressed in primordial germ cells and their descendants including oocytes Bortvin et al. 2004 BMC Developmental Biology 4 2 1 5 . Stella encodes a protein with a SAP like domain and a splicing factor motif like structure. Embryos deficient in Stella expression are compromised in preimplantation development and rarely reach the blastocyst stage. Thus Stella is a maternal factor implicated in early embryogenesis.

Dazl is a gene expressed in peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitor cells. The autosomal gene Dazl is a member of a family of genes that contain a consensus RNA binding domain and are expressed in germ cells. Loss of expression of an intact Dazl protein in mice is associated with failure of germ cells to complete meiotic prophase. Specifically in female mice null for Dazl loss of germ cells occurs during fetal life at a time coincident with progression of germ cells through meiotic prophase. In male mice null for Dazl germ cells were unable to progress beyond the leptotene stage of meiotic prophase I. Thus in the absence of Dazl progression through meiotic prophase is interrupted Saunders et al. 2003 Reproduction 126 589 597 .

Vasa is a gene expressed in peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitor cells. Vasa is a component of the germplasm that encodes a DEAD family ATP dependent RNA helicase Liang et al. 1994 Development 120 1201 1211 Lasko et al. 1988 Nature 335 611 167 . The molecular function of Vasa is directed to binding target mRNAs involved in germ cell establishment e.g. Oskar and Nanos oogenesis e.g. Gruken and translation onset Gavis et al. 1996 Development 110 521 528 . Vasa is required for pole cell formation and is exclusively restricted to the germ cell lineage throughout the development. Thus Vasa is a molecular marker for the germ cell lineage in most animal species Toshiaki et al. 2001 Cell Structure and Function 26 131 136 . Because Vasa has been associated with inhibition of cell migration expression of Vasa in progenitor cells of the invention may be differentially regulated depending on the migratory state of the progenitor. For example while in the bone marrow the progenitor may express Vasa and while migrating to the reproductive tract the progenitor may down regulate expression.

Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitor cells do not express GDF 9 a gene expressed in cells that have already started to differentiate into oocytes. Growth differentiation factor 9 GDF 9 is a member of the transforming growth factor superfamily expressed specifically in ovaries. GDF 9 mRNA can be found in neonatal and adult oocytes from the primary one layer follicle stage until after ovulation Dong J. et al 1996 Nature 383 531 5 . Analysis of GDF 9 deficient mice reveals that only primordial and primary one layer follicles can be formed but a block beyond the primary one layer follicle stage in follicular development occurs resulting in complete infertility.

Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitor cells do not express ZP3 ZP1 ZP2 and ZP3 which are gene products that comprise the zona pellucida of the oocyte. Their expression is regulated by a basic helix loop helix bHLH transcription factor FIG . Mice null in FIG do not express the Zp genes and do not form primordial follicles Soyal S. M. et al 2000 Development 127 4645 4654 . Individual knockouts of the ZP genes result in abnormal or absent zonae pellucidae and decreased fertility Zp1 Rankin T et al 1999 Development. 126 3847 55 or sterility Zp2 Rankin T L et al. 2001 Development 128 1119 26 ZP3 Rankin T et al 1996 Development 122 2903 10 . The ZP protein products are glycosylated and subsequently secreted to form an extracellular matrix which is important for in vivo fertilization and pre implantation development. Expression of the ZP proteins is precisely regulated and restricted to a two week growth phase of oogenesis. Zp mRNA transcripts are not expressed in resting oocytes however once the oocytes begin to grow all three Zp transcripts begin to accumulate.

Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitor cells do not express HDAC6. HDACs or histone deacetylases are involved in ovarian follicle development. HDAC6 in particular can be detected in resting germinal vesicle stage primordial oocytes Verdel A. et al. 2003 Zygote 11 323 8 . HDAC6 is a class II histone deacetylase and has been implicated as a microtubule associated deactylase Hubbert C. et al 2002 Nature 417 455 8 . HDACs are the target of inhibitors including but not limited to trichostatin A and trapoxin both of which are microbial metabolites that induce cell differentiation cell cycle arrest and reversal of the transformed cell morphology.

Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitor cells do not express SCP3 consistent with observations that they are pre meiotic stem cells i.e. diploid . The synaptonemal complex protein SCP3 is part of the lateral element of the synaptonemal complex a meiosis specific protein structure essential for synapsis of homologous chromosomes. The synaptonemal complex promotes pairing and segregation of homologous chromosomes influences the number and relative distribution of crossovers and converts crossovers into chiasmata. SCP3 is meiosis specific and can form multi stranded cross striated fibers forming an ordered fibrous core in the lateral element Yuan L. et al 1998 J. Cell. Biol. 142 331 339 . The absence of SCP3 in mice can lead to female genii cell aneuploidy and embryo death possibly due to a defect in structural integrity of meiotic chromosomes Yuan L. et al 2002 Science 296 1115 8 .

Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitor cells can be isolated by standard means known in the art for the separation of stem cells from the blood e.g. cell sorting . Preferably the isolation protocol includes generation of a kit lin fraction that is depleted of hematopoietic cells. Additional selection means based on the unique profile of gene expression e.g. Vasa Dazl and Stella can be employed to further purify populations of cells comprising peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitor cells. Compositions comprising peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitor cells can be isolated and subsequently purified to an extent where they become substantially free of the biological sample from which they were obtained e.g. peripheral blood including umbilical cord blood .

Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell progenitors can be obtained from peripheral blood female germline stem cells by for example expansion in culture. Thus the progenitor cells can be cells having an expansion phenotype. 

Compositions comprising peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitors can be provided directly to the reproductive organ of interest e.g. ovary or testes . Alternatively compositions comprising peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitors can be provided indirectly to the reproductive organ of interest for example by administration into the circulatory system e.g. to extra ovarian circulation . Following transplantation or implantation the cells can engraft and differentiate into germ cells e.g. oocytes or sperm cells . Engraft refers to the process of cellular contact and incorporation into an existing tissue of interest e.g. ovary in vivo. Expansion and differentiation agents can be provided prior to during or after administration to increase production of germ cells in vivo.

Compositions of the invention include pharmaceutical compositions comprising peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitors and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Administration can be autologous or heterologous. For example peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or progenitors derived from peripheral blood derived germline stem cells can be obtained from one subject and administered to the same subject or a different compatible subject.

Peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention or their progeny e.g. in vivo ex vivo or in vitro derived can be administered via localized injection including catheter administration systemic injection localized injection intravenous injection intrauterine injection or parenteral administration. When administering a therapeutic composition of the present invention e.g. a pharmaceutical composition it will generally be formulated in a unit dosage injectable form solution suspension emulsion .

Compositions of the invention can be conveniently provided as sterile liquid preparations e.g. isotonic aqueous solutions suspensions emulsions dispersions or viscous compositions which may be buffered to a selected pH. Liquid preparations are normally easier to prepare than gels other viscous compositions and solid compositions. Additionally liquid compositions are somewhat more convenient to administer especially by injection. Viscous compositions on the other hand can be formulated within the appropriate viscosity range to provide longer contact periods with specific tissues. Liquid or viscous compositions can comprise carriers which can be a solvent or dispersing medium containing for example water saline phosphate buffered saline polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol liquid polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof.

Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the cells utilized in practicing the present invention in the required amount of the appropriate solvent with various amounts of the other ingredients as desired. Such compositions may be in admixture with a suitable carrier diluent or excipient such as sterile water physiological saline glucose dextrose or the like. The compositions can also be lyophilized. The compositions can contain auxiliary substances such as wetting dispersing or emulsifying agents e.g. methylcellulose pH buffering agents gelling or viscosity enhancing additives preservatives flavoring agents colors and the like depending upon the route of administration and the preparation desired. Standard texts such as REMINGTON S PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCE 17th edition 1985 incorporated herein by reference may be consulted to prepare suitable preparations without undue experimentation.

Various additives which enhance the stability and sterility of the compositions including antimicrobial preservatives antioxidants chelating agents and buffers can be added. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be ensured by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid and the like. Prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form can be brought about by the use of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin. According to the present invention however any vehicle diluent or additive used would have to be compatible with the peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitors.

The compositions can be isotonic i.e. they can have the same osmotic pressure as blood and lacrimal fluid. The desired isotonicity of the compositions of this invention may be accomplished using sodium chloride or other pharmaceutically acceptable agents such as dextrose boric acid sodium tartrate propylene glycol or other inorganic or organic solutes. Sodium chloride is preferred particularly for buffers containing sodium ions.

Viscosity of the compositions if desired can be maintained at the selected level using a pharmaceutically acceptable thickening agent. Methylcellulose is preferred because it is readily and economically available and is easy to work with. Other suitable thickening agents include for example xanthan gum carboxymethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl cellulose carbomer and the like. The preferred concentration of the thickener will depend upon the agent selected. The important point is to use an amount that will achieve the selected viscosity. Obviously the choice of suitable carriers and other additives will depend on the exact route of administration and the nature of the particular dosage form e.g. liquid dosage form e.g. whether the composition is to be formulated into a solution a suspension gel or another liquid form such as a time release form or liquid filled fowl .

A method to potentially increase cell survival when introducing the cells into a subject in need thereof is to incorporate peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progeny e.g. in vivo ex vivo or in vitro derived of interest into a biopolymer or synthetic polymer. Depending on the subject s condition the site of injection might prove inhospitable for cell seeding and growth because of scarring or other impediments. Examples of biopolymer include but are not limited to cells mixed with fibronectin fibrin fibrinogen thrombin collagen and proteoglycans. This could be constructed with or without included expansion or differentiation factors. Additionally these could be in suspension but residence time at sites subjected to flow would be nominal. Another alternative is a three dimensional gel with cells entrapped within the interstices of the cell biopolymer admixture. Again expansion or differentiation factors could be included with the cells. These could be deployed by injection via various routes described herein.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the components of the compositions should be selected to be chemically inert and will not affect the viability or efficacy of the peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitors as described in the present invention. This will present no problem to those skilled in chemical and pharmaceutical principles or problems can be readily avoided by reference to standard texts or by simple experiments not involving undue experimentation from this disclosure and the documents cited herein.

One consideration concerning the therapeutic use of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention is the quantity of cells necessary to achieve an optimal effect. In current human studies of autologous mononuclear peripheral blood cells empirical doses ranging from 1 to 4 10cells have been used with encouraging results. However different scenarios may require optimization of the amount of cells injected into a tissue of interest. Thus the quantity of cells to be administered will vary for the subject being treated. In a preferred embodiment between 10to 10 more preferably 10to 10 and still more preferably 3 10stem cells of the invention can be administered to a human subject.

Less cells can be administered directly to the ovary or testes. Preferably between 10to 10 more preferably 10to 10 and still more preferably 10peripheral blood derived germline stem cells can be administered to a human subject. However the precise determination of what would be considered an effective dose may be based on factors individual to each patient including their size age sex weight and condition of the particular patient. As few as 100 1000 cells can be administered for certain desired applications among selected patients. Therefore dosages can be readily ascertained by those skilled in the art from this disclosure and the knowledge in the art.

Peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention can comprise a purified population of female germline stem cells. Those skilled in the art can readily determine the percentage of female germline stem cells in a population using various well known methods such as fluorescence activated cell sorting FACS . Preferable ranges of purity in populations comprising female germline stem cells are about 50 to about 55 about 55 to about 60 and about 65 to about 70 . More preferably the purity is about 70 to about 75 about 75 to about 80 about 80 to about 85 and still more preferably the purity is about 85 to about 90 about 90 to about 95 and about 95 to about 100 . Purity of female germline stem cells can be determined according to the genetic marker profile within a population. Dosages can be readily adjusted by those skilled in the art e.g. a decrease in purity may require an increase in dosage .

The skilled artisan can readily determine the amount of cells and optional additives vehicles and or carrier in compositions and to be administered in methods of the invention. Typically any additives in addition to the active stem cell s and or agent s are present in an amount of 0.001 to 50 weight solution in phosphate buffered saline and the active ingredient is present in the order of micrograms to milligrams such as about 0.0001 to about 5 wt preferably about 0.0001 to about 1 wt still more preferably about 0.0001 to about 0.05 wt or about 0.001 to about 20 wt preferably about 0.01 to about 10 wt and still more preferably about 0.05 to about 5 wt . Of course for any composition to be administered to an animal or human and for any particular method of administration it is preferred to determine therefore toxicity such as by determining the lethal dose LD and LDin a suitable animal model e.g. rodent such as mouse and the dosage of the composition s concentration of components therein and timing of administering the composition s which elicit a suitable response. Such determinations do not require undue experimentation from the knowledge of the skilled artisan this disclosure and the documents cited herein. And the time for sequential administrations can be ascertained without undue experimentation.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method for oocyte production comprising providing a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor to a female subject and more preferably to the ovary of said subject wherein the cell engrafts into the a tissue of the subject e.g. ovary and differentiates into an oocyte.

Preferably the engrafted cells undergo folliculogenesis wherein the cells differentiate into an oocyte within a follicle. Folliculogenesis is a process in which an ovarian structure consisting of a single oocyte is surrounded by somatic granulosa without or with theca interstitial cells. Somatic cells of the gonad enclose individual oocytes to form follicles. Each fully formed follicle is enveloped in a complete basement membrane. Although some of these newly formed follicles start to grow almost immediately most of them remain in the resting stage until they either degenerate or some signal s activate s them to enter the growth phase. A method of the invention can induce ovarian folliculogenesis by providing a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor to the ovary by any one of several routes of administration. The peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor can engraft into the ovary and differentiate into an oocyte within a follicle of the ovary.

The number of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells can be increased by increasing the survival or proliferation of existing peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells.

Agents e.g. expansion agents which increase proliferation or survival of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or progenitors derived from peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells include but are not limited to a hormone or growth factor e.g. a IGF TGF BMP Wnt protein or FGF a cell signaling molecule e.g. S1P or RA or a pharmacological or pharmaceutical compound e.g. an inhibitor of GSK 3 an inhibitor of apoptosis such as a Bax inhibitor or caspase inhibitor an inhibitor of nitric oxide production or an inhibitor of HDAC activity .

Agents comprising growth factors are known in the art to increase proliferation or survival of stem cells. For example U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 750 376 and 5 851 832 describe methods for the in vitro culture and proliferation of neural stem cells using TGF. An active role in the expansion and proliferaion of stem cells has also been described for BMPs Zhu G. et al 1999 Dev. Biol. 215 118 29 and Kawase E. et al 2001 Development 131 1365 and Wnt proteins Pazianos G. et al 2003 Biotechniques 35 1240 and Constantinescu S. 2003 J. Cell Mol. Med. 7 103 . U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 453 357 and 5 851 832 describe proliferative stem cell culture systems that utilize FGFs. The contents of each of these references are specifically incorporated herein by reference for their description of expansion agents known in the art.

Agents comprising growth factors are also known in the art to increase mobilization of stem cells from the bone marrow or ovary into the peripheral blood. Mobilizing agents include but are not limited to GCSF or GMCSF. An agent that increases mobilization of stem cells into the blood can be provided before peripheral blood harvest or alternatively to augment or supplement other methods of the invention where it would be desirable to increase circulating levels of female germline stem cells e.g. to increase targeting of the cells to the ovary .

Agents comprising cell signaling molecules are also known in the art to increase proliferation or survival of stem cells. For example Sphingosine 1 phosphate is known to induce proliferation of neural progenitor cells Harada J. et al 2004 J. Neurochem. 88 1026 . U.S. Patent Application No. 20030113913 describes the use of retinoic acid in stem cell self renewal in culture. The contents of each of these references are specifically incorporated herein by reference for their description of expansion agents known in the art.

Agents comprising pharmacological or pharmaceutical compounds are also known in the art to increase production or survival of stem cells. For example inhibitors of glycogen synthase kinase maintain pluripotency of embryonic stem cells through activation of Wnt signaling Sato N. et al 2004 Nat. Med. 10 55 . Inhibitors of apoptosis Wang Y. et al 2004 Mol. Cell. Endocrinol. 218 165 inhibitors of nitric oxide nitric oxide synthase Matarredona E. R. et al 2004 Brain Res. 995 274 and inhibitors of histone deacetylases Lee J. H. et al 2004 Genesis 38 32 are also known to increase proliferation and or pluripotency. For example the peptide humanin is an inhibitor of Bax function that suppresses apoptosis Guo B. et al 2003 Nature 423 456 . The contents of each of these references are specifically incorporated herein by reference for their description of expansion agents known in the art.

Oocyte production can be further increased by contacting compositions comprising peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or progenitors derived from peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells with an agent that differentiates peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitors into oocytes e.g. differentiation agents . Such differentiation agents include but are not limited to a hormone or growth factor e.g. TGF BMP Wnt protein SCF or LIF a signaling molecule e.g. meiosis activating sterol FF MAS or a pharmacologic or pharmaceutical agent e.g. a modulator of Id protein function or Snail Slug transcription factor function .

Agents comprising growth factors are known in the art to differentiate stem cells. For example TGF can induce differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells Ruscetti F. W. et al 2001 Int. J. Hematol. 74 18 . U.S. Patent Application No. 2002142457 describes methods for differentiation of cardiomyocytes using BMPs. Pera et al describe human embryonic stem cell differentiation using BMP 2 Pera M. F. et al 2004 J. Cell Sci. 117 1269 . U.S. Patent Application No. 20040014210 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 485 972 describe methods of using Wnt proteins to induce differentiation. U.S. Pat. No. 6 586 243 describes differentiation of dendritic cells in the presence of SCF. U.S. Pat. No. 6 395 546 describes methods for generating dopaminergic neurons in vitro from embryonic and adult central nervous system cells using LIF. The contents of each of these references are specifically incorporated herein by reference for their description of differentiation agents known in the art.

Agents comprising signaling molecules are also known to induce differentiation of oocytes. FF Mas is known to promote oocyte maturation Marin Bivens C. L. et al 2004 BOR papers in press . The contents of each of these references are specifically incorporated herein by reference for their description of differentiation agents known in the art.

Agents comprising pharmacological or pharmaceutical compounds are also known in the art to induce differentiation of stem cells. For example modulators of Id are involved in hematopoietic differentiation Nogueria M. M. et al 2000 276 803 and Modulators of Snail Slug are known to induce stem cell differentiation Le Douarin N. M. et al 1994 Curr. Opin. Genet. Dev. 4 685 695 Plescia C. et al 2001 Differentiation 68 254 . The contents of each of these references are specifically incorporated herein by reference for their description of differentiation agents known in the art.

The present invention also provides methods for reducing peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells in vivo ex vivo or in vitro comprising contacting peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitor cells with an agent that reduces cell proliferation inhibits cell survival or promotes cell death. Unwanted proliferation of the cells of the invention can give rise to cancerous and pre cancerous phenotypes e.g. germ cell tumors ovarian cancer testicular cancer . Such methods can be used to control unwanted proliferation e.g. cancer or for contraceptive measures by reducing the numbers of germline stem cells and optionally their progenitors or oocytes.

Agents that reduce cell proliferation include but are not limited to a hormone or growth factor e.g. TGF a peptide antagonist of mitogenic hormones or growth factors e.g. the BMP antagonists PRDC and Gremlin or a pharmacological or pharmaceutical compound e.g. a cell cycle inhibitor or an inhibitor of growth factor signaling .

Agents that inhibit cell survival include but are not limited to a hormone growth factor or cytokine e.g. a pro apoptotic TNF super family member such as TNF FasL and TRAIL an antagonist of pro survival Bcl 2 family member function a signaling molecule e.g. a ceramide or a pharmacological or pharmaceutical compound e.g. an inhibitor of growth factor signaling . Pro survival Bcl 2 family members include Bcl 2 Bcl xl Cory S and Adams J. M. 2000 Nat Rev Cancer 2 9 647 656 Lutz R. J. 2000 Cell Survival Apoptosis 28 51 56 Bcl W Gibson L. et al. 1996 Oncogene 13 665 675 Cory S and Adams J. M. 2000 Nat Rev Cancer 2 9 647 656 Mcl 1 Kozopas K. M. et al. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 90 3516 3520 Reynolds J. E. et al. 1994 Cancer Res. 54 6348 6352 Cory S and Adams J. M. 2000 Nat Rev Cancer 2 9 647 656 and A1 Cory S and Adams J. M. 2000 Nat Rev Cancer 2 9 647 656 Gonzales J. et al. 2003 Blood 101 7 2679 2685 Reed J. C. 1997 Nature 387 773 776 .

Agents that promote cell death include but are not limited to a pro apoptotic tumor necrosis factor superfamily member e.g. TNF FasL and TRAIL agonist of pro apoptotic Bcl 2 family member function and ceramide. Pro apoptotic Bcl 2 family members include Bax Oltvai Z N et al. 1993 Cell 74 609 619 Bak Chittenden T et al. 1995 Nature 374 733 736 Bid Luo X. et al. 1998 Cell 94 481 490 Hrk Inohara N. et al. 1997 EMBO J. 16 7 1686 1694 Bod Hsu et al. 1998 Mol Endocrinol. 12 9 1432 1440 Bim O Connor L. et al. 1998 EMBO J. 17 2 385 395 Noxa Oda E. et al. 2000 Science 288 1053 1058 Yakovlev A. G. et al. 2004 J Biol Chem 279 27 28367 28374 puma Nakano K. and Vousden K. H. 2001 Mol Cell 7 3 683 694 Bok Yakovlev A. G. et al. 2004 J Biol Chem 279 27 28367 28374 Hsu S Y et al. 1997 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 94 23 12401 6 and Bcl xs Boise L. H. et al. 1993 Cell 74 597 608 .

Several agents are known in the art to inhibit cell proliferation or survival or promote cell death including PRDC Sudo et al 2004 J. Biol. Chem. advanced publication TNF Wong G. et al 2004 Exp. Neurol. 187 171 FasL Sakata S. et al 2003 Cell Death Differ. 10 676 and TRAIL Pitti R M et al. 1996 J Biol Chem 271 12687 12690 Wiley S R et al. 1995 Immunity 3 673 682 . Ceramide mediates the action of tumor necrosis factor on primitive human hematopoietic cells Magruer Satta V. et al 2000 Blood 96 4118 23 . Agonist antagonist of Bcl 2 family members such as Bcl 2 Bcl XL Bcl W Mcl 1 A1 Bax Bak Bid Hrk Bod Bim Noxa Puma Bok and Bcl xs are known to inhibit stem cell survival Lindsten T. et al 2003 J. Neurosci. 23 11112 9 . Agents comprising pharmacological or pharmaceutical compounds are also known in the art to inhibit cell survival. For example inhibitors of growth factor signaling such as QSulfl a heparan sulfate 6 O endosulfatase that inhibits fibroblast growth factor signaling can inhibit stem cell survival Wang S. et al 2004 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101 4833 . The contents of each of these references are specifically incorporated herein by reference for their description of agents known in the art to inhibit cell survival.

Agents can be provided directly to the reproductive organ of interest. Alternatively agents can be provided indirectly to the reproductive organ of interest for example by administration into the circulatory system.

Agents can be administered to subjects in need thereof by a variety of administration routes. Methods of administration generally speaking may be practiced using any mode of administration that is medically acceptable meaning any mode that produces effective levels of the active compounds without causing clinically unacceptable adverse effects. Such modes of administration include oral rectal topical intraocular buccal intravaginal intracisternal intracerebroventricular intratracheal nasal transdermal within on implants e.g. fibers such as collagen osmotic pumps or grafts comprising appropriately transformed cells etc. or parenteral routes. The term parenteral includes subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal intragonadal or infusion. Intravenous or intramuscular routes are not particularly suitable for long term therapy and prophylaxis. A particular method of administration involves coating embedding or derivatizing fibers such as collagen fibers protein polymers etc. with therapeutic proteins. Other useful approaches are described in Otto D. et al. J. Neurosci. Res. 22 83 and in Otto D. and Unsicker K. J. Neurosci. 10 1912.

In vitro and ex vivo applications can involve culture of the peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitors with the selected agent to achieve the desired result. Cultures of cells from the same individual and from different individuals can be treated with differentiation agents of interest to stimulate the production of oocytes which can then be used for a variety of therapeutic applications e.g. in vitro fertilization implantation .

Differentiated cells derived from cultures of the invention can be implanted into a host. The transplantation can be autologous such that the donor of the stem cells from which organ or organ units are derived is the recipient of the engineered tissue. The transplantation can be heterologous such that the donor of the stem cells from which organ or organ units are derived is not that of the recipient of the engineered tissue. Once transferred into a host the differentiated cells the function and architecture of the native host tissue.

Peripheral blood derived germline stem cells and the progeny thereof can be cultured treated with agents and or administered in the presence of polymer scaffolds. Polymer scaffolds are designed to optimize gas nutrient and waste exchange by diffusion. Polymer scaffolds can comprise for example a porous non woven array of fibers. The polymer scaffold can be shaped to maximize surface area to allow adequate diffusion of nutrients and growth factors to the cells. Taking these parameters into consideration one of skill in the art could configure a polymer scaffold having sufficient surface area for the cells to be nourished by diffusion until new blood vessels interdigitate the implanted engineered tissue using methods known in the art. Polymer scaffolds can comprise a fibrillar structure. The fibers can be round scalloped flattened star shaped solitary or entwined with other fibers. Branching fibers can be used increasing surface area proportionately to volume.

Unless otherwise specified the term polymer includes polymers and monomers that can be polymerized or adhered to form an integral unit. The polymer can be non biodegradable or biodegradable typically via hydrolysis or enzymatic cleavage. The term biodegradable refers to materials that are bioresorbable and or degrade and or break down by mechanical degradation upon interaction with a physiological environment into components that are metabolizable or excretable over a period of time from minutes to three years preferably less than one year while maintaining the requisite structural integrity. As used in reference to polymers the term degrade refers to cleavage of the polymer chain such that the molecular weight stays approximately constant at the oligomer level and particles of polymer remain following degradation.

Materials suitable for polymer scaffold fabrication include polylactic acid PLA poly L lactic acid PLLA poly D lactic acid PDLA polyglycolide polyglycolic acid PGA polylactide co glycolide PLGA polydioxanone polygluconate polylactic acid polyethylene oxide copolymers modified cellulose collagen polyhydroxybutyrate polyhydroxpriopionic acid polyphosphoester poly alpha hydroxy acid polycaprolactone polycarbonates polyamides polyanhydrides polyamino acids polyorthoesters polyacetals polycyanoacrylates degradable urethanes aliphatic polyester polyacrylates polymethacrylate acyl substituted cellulose acetates non degradable polyurethanes polystyrenes polyvinyl chloride polyvinyl flouride polyvinyl imidazole chlorosulphonated polyolifins polyethylene oxide polyvinyl alcohol teflon RTM nylon silicon and shape memory materials such as polystyrene block butadiene polynorbornene hydrogels metallic alloys and oligo caprolactone diol as switching segment oligo p dioxyanone diol as physical crosslink. Other suitable polymers can be obtained by reference to The Polymer Handbook 3rd edition Wiley N.Y. 1989 .

Factors including but not limited to nutrients growth factors inducers of differentiation or de differentiation products of secretion immunomodulators inhibitors of inflammation regression factors hormones or other biologically active compounds can be incorporated into or can be provided in conjunction with the polymer scaffold.

Agents of the invention may be supplied along with additional reagents in a kit. The kits can include instructions for the treatment regime or assay reagents equipment test tubes reaction vessels needles syringes etc. and standards for calibrating or conducting the treatment or assay. The instructions provided in a kit according to the invention may be directed to suitable operational parameters in the form of a label or a separate insert. Optionally the kit may further comprise a standard or control information so that the test sample can be compared with the control information standard to determine if whether a consistent result is achieved.

Methods of the present invention can be used in the production of other reproductive cell types. Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention provides a method for restoring or enhancing spermatogenesis comprising providing a peripheral blood derived male germline stem cell or its progenitor to the testes of a male subject wherein the cell engrafts into the seminiferous epithelium and differentiates into a sperm cell. Administration of a peripheral blood derived male germline stem cell or its progenitor to the testes is preferably carried out by testicular injection. Direct injection into the testes advantageously circumvents the blood barrier and provides cells to suitable locations such as the seminiferous epithelium.

Spermatogenesis can be further increased by contacting compositions comprising peripheral blood derived male germline stem cells or progenitors derived from peripheral blood derived male germline stem cells with an agent that increases the differentiation of peripheral blood derived male germline stem cells or their progenitors into oocytes e.g. differentiation agents . Such differentiation agents can be but are not limited to those described herein.

Spermatogenesis or the formation of spermatocytes from spermatogonia can be regulated by numerous factors. Regulators of apoptosis including Bax Bcl family members and caspase family members can modulate spermatogenesis and affect male fertility Said T. M. et al. 2004 Hum. Reprod. Update 10 39 51 Yan W. et al 2003 Mol. Endocrinol. 17 1868 . Caspases have been implicated in the pathogenesis of multiple andrological pathologies such as inter alia impaired spermatogenesis decreased sperm motility and increased levels of sperm DNA fragmentation. Caspase inhibitors such as survivin and FLIP can be used to regulate apoptotic events during spermatogenesis Weikert S. 2004 Int. J. Androl. 27 161 Giampietri C. et al 2003 Cell Death Differ. 10 175 . Similarly Bax inhibitors such as humanin are also implicated in spermatogenic apoptosis Guo B. et al. 2003 Nature 423 456 .

Growth factors such as fibroblast growth factor 4 Hirai K. et al 2004 Exp. Cell Res. 294 77 can also influence spermatogenesis. FGF 4 can play a critical role as a survival factor for germ cells by protecting them from apoptosis. Upon FGF 4 stimulation in Sertoli cells lactate production was induced which is indispensable for germ cell survival. FGF 4 stimulation can also reduce DNA fragmentation in Sertoli cells.

Bone morphogenetic protein BMP signaling pathways have also been implicated in maintenance of germ line stem cells in Kawase E. et al 2004 Development 131 1365 75 Pellegrini M. et al 2003 J. Cell Sci. 116 3363 . BMP4 stimulation of cultured spermatogonia can induce Smad mediated proliferation as well as differentiation through the c kit gene. Additionally BMP signals from somatic cells were shown to be essential for maintaining germline stem cells through repression of the bam expression indicating that Bmp signals from the somatic cells maintain germline stem cells at least in part by repressing bam expression in the testis.

Transforming growth factor TGF can also repress barn expression in testis. Maintenance and proliferation of germ line stem cells and their progeny depends upon the ability of these cells to transduce the activity of a somatically expressed TGF ligand known in as the BMP5 8 ortholog Glass Bottom Boat Shivdasani A. A. and Ingham P. W. 2003 Curr. Biol. 13 2065 . TGF signaling represses the expression of barn which is necessary and sufficient for germ cell differentiation thereby maintaining germ line stem cells and spermatogonia in their proliferative state.

Sphingosine 1 phosphate S1P is also known to affect the survival and proliferation of germ line stem cells and spermatogonia. In a study where irradiated testicular tissue was treated with S1P the numbers of primary spermatocytes and spermatogonia were higher than untreated tissues indicating that S1p treatment can protect germ line stem cells against cell death induced by radiation.

Glial derived neurotrophic factor was found to markedly amplify germline stem cells in murine testis Kubota H. et al 2004 Biol. Reprod. April 28 Epub ahead of print . Transplantation analysis demonstrated not only germline stem cells enrichment but also differentiation from stem cells into sperm Yomogida K. et al 2003 Biol. Reprod. 69 1303 .

The present invention also provides methods for reducing peripheral blood derived male germline stem cells or their progenitor cells in vivo ex vivo or in vitro comprising contacting peripheral blood derived male germline stem cells or their progenitor cells with an agent that reduces cell proliferation inhibits cell survival or promotes cell death. Unwanted proliferation of the cells of the invention can give rise to cancerous and pre cancerous phenotypes e.g. germ cell tumors . Such methods can be used to control unwanted proliferation e.g. cancer or for contraceptive measures by reducing the numbers of germline stem cells and optionally their progenitors or sperm cells.

Agents that reduce cell proliferation include but are not limited to a hormone or growth factor e.g. TGF a peptide antagonist of mitogenic hormones or growth factors e.g. the BMP antagonists PRDC and Gremlin or a pharmacological or pharmaceutical compound e.g. a cell cycle inhibitor or an inhibitor of growth factor signaling .

Agents that inhibit cell survival include but are not limited to a hormone growth factor or cytokine e.g. a pro apoptotic TNF super family member such as TNF FasL and TRAIL an antagonist of pro survival Bcl 2 family member function a signaling molecule e.g. a ceramide or a pharmacological or pharmaceutical compound e.g. an inhibitor of growth factor signaling .

Agents that promote cell death include but are not limited to a pro apoptotic tumor necrosis factor superfamily member e.g. TNF FasL and TRAIL agonist of pro apoptotic Bcl 2 family member function and ceramide.

The invention provides methods for identifying modulators i.e. candidate or test compounds or agents e.g. proteins peptides peptidomimetics peptoids small molecules or other drugs which modulate peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or the progenitors thereof. Agents thus identified can be used to modulate for example proliferation survival and differentiation of a peripheral blood derived germline stem cell or its progenitor e.g. in a therapeutic protocol.

The test agents of the present invention can be obtained singly or using any of the numerous approaches in combinatorial library methods known in the art including biological libraries peptoid libraries libraries of molecules having the functionalities of peptides but with a novel non peptide backbone which are resistant to enzymatic degradation but which nevertheless remain bioactive see e.g. Zuckermann R. N. 1994 et al. J. Med. Chem. 37 2678 85 spatially addressable parallel solid phase or solution phase libraries synthetic library methods requiring deconvolution the one bead one compound library method and synthetic library methods using affinity chromatography selection. The biological library and peptoid library approaches are limited to peptide libraries while the other four approaches are applicable to peptide non peptide oligomer or small molecule libraries of compounds Lam 1997 Anticancer Drug Des. 12 145 .

Examples of methods for the synthesis of molecular libraries can be found in the art for example in DeWitt et al. 1993 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 90 6909 Erb et al. 1994 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91 11422 Zuckermann et al. 1994 J. Med. Chem. 37 2678 Cho et al. 1993 Science 261 1303 Carrell et al. 1994 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 33 2059 Carell et al 1994 Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 33 2061 and Gallop et al. 1994 J. Med. Chem. 37 1233.

Libraries of compounds may be presented in solution e.g. Houghten 1992 Biotechniques 13 412 421 or on beads Lam 1991 Nature 354 82 84 chips Fodor 1993 Nature 364 555 556 bacteria Ladner U.S. Pat. No. 5 223 409 spores Ladner U.S. Pat. No. 5 223 409 plasmids Cull et al. 1992 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 89 1865 1869 or on phage Scott and Smith 1990 Science 249 386 390 Devlin 1990 Science 249 404 406 Cwirla et al. 1990 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 87 6378 6382 Felici 1991 J. Mol. Biol. 222 301 310 Ladner supra. .

Chemical compounds to be used as test agents i.e. potential inhibitor antagonist agonist can be obtained from commercial sources or can be synthesized from readily available starting materials using standard synthetic techniques and methodologies known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Synthetic chemistry transformations and protecting group methodologies protection and deprotection useful in synthesizing the compounds identified by the methods described herein are known in the art and include for example those such as described in R. Larock 1989 Comprehensive Organic Transformations VCH Publishers T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 2nd ed. John Wiley and Sons 1991 L. Fieser and M. Fieser Fieser and Fieser s Reagents for Organic Synthesis John Wiley and Sons 1994 and L. Paquette ed. Encyclopedia of Reagents for Organic Synthesis John Wiley and Sons 1995 and subsequent editions thereof.

In one aspect the compounds are organic small molecules that is compounds having molecular weight less than 1 000 amu alternatively between 350 750 amu. In other aspects the compounds are i those that are non peptidic ii those having between 1 and 5 inclusive heterocyclyl or heteroaryl ring groups which may bear further substituents iii those in their respective pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms or iv those that are peptidic.

The terra heterocyclyl refers to a nonaromatic 3 8 membered monocyclic 8 12 membered bicyclic or 11 14 membered tricyclic ring system having 1 3 heteroatoms if monocyclic 1 6 heteroatoms if bicyclic or 1 9 heteroatoms if tricyclic said heteroatoms selected from O N or S e.g. carbon atoms and 1 3 1 6 or 1 9 heteroatoms of N O or S if monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic respectively wherein 0 1 2 or 3 atoms of each ring can be substituted by a substituent.

The term heteroaryl refers to an aromatic 5 8 membered monocyclic 8 12 membered bicyclic or 11 14 membered tricyclic ring system having 1 3 heteroatoms if monocyclic 1 6 heteroatoms if bicyclic or 1 9 heteroatoms if tricyclic said heteroatoms selected from O N or S e.g. carbon atoms and 1 3 1 6 or 1 9 heteroatoms of N O or S if monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic respectively wherein 0 1 2 3 or 4 atoms of each ring can be substituted by a substituent.

The term substituents refers to a group substituted on an alkyl cycloalkyl aryl heterocyclyl or heteroaryl group at any atom of that group. Suitable substituents include without limitation alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkoxy halo hydroxy cyano nitro amino SOH perfluoroalkyl perfluoroalkoxy methylenedioxy ethylenedioxy carboxyl oxo thioxo imino alkyl aryl aralkyl S O alkyl where n is 0 2 S O aryl where n is 0 2 S O heteroaryl where n is 0 2 S O heterocyclyl where n is 0 2 amine mono di alkyl cycloalkyl aralkyl heteroaralkyl and combinations thereof ester alkyl aralkyl heteroaralkyl amide mono di alkyl aralkyl heteroaralkyl and combinations thereof sulfonamide mono di alkyl aralkyl heteroaralkyl and combinations thereof unsubstituted aryl unsubstituted heteroaryl unsubstituted heterocyclyl and unsubstituted cycloalkyl. In one aspect the substituents on a group are independently any one single or any subset of the aforementioned substituents.

Combinations of substituents and variables in compounds envisioned by this invention are only those that result in the formation of stable compounds. The term stable as used herein refers to compounds which possess stability sufficient to allow manufacture and which maintains the integrity of the compound for a sufficient period of time to be useful for the purposes detailed herein e.g. transport storage assaying therapeutic administration to a subject .

The compounds described herein can contain one or more asymmetric centers and thus occur as racemates and racemic mixtures single enantiomers individual diastereomers and diastereomeric mixtures. All such isomeric forms of these compounds are expressly included in the present invention. The compounds described herein can also be represented in multiple tautomeric forms all of which are included herein. The compounds can also occur in cis or trans or E or Z double bond isomeric forms. All such isomeric forms of such compounds are expressly included in the present invention.

Screening methods of the invention can involve the identification of an agent that increases the proliferation or survival of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or the progenitors thereof. Such methods will typically involve contacting a population of the germline stem or progenitor cells with a test agent in culture and quantitating the number of new stem or progenitor cells produced as a result. Comparison to an untreated control can be concurrently assessed. Where an increase in the number of stem or progenitor cells is detected relative to the control the test agent is determined to have the desired activity.

In practicing the methods of the invention it may be desirable to employ a purified population of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or the progenitors thereof. A purified population of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or the progenitors thereof have about 50 55 55 60 60 65 and 65 70 purity. More preferably the purity is about 70 75 75 80 80 85 and still more preferably the purity is about 85 90 90 95 and 95 100 .

Increased amounts of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or the progenitors thereof can also be detected by an increase in gene expression of genetic markers including an Dazl Stella and Vasa. The level of expression can be measured in a number of way s including but not limited to measuring the mRNA encoded by the genetic markers measuring the amount of protein encoded by the genetic markers or measuring the activity of the protein encoded by the genetic markers.

The level of mRNA corresponding to a genetic marker can be determined both by in situ and by in vitro formats. The isolated mRNA can be used in hybridization or amplification assays that include but are not limited to Southern or Northern analyses polymerase chain reaction analyses and probe arrays. One diagnostic method for the detection of mRNA levels involves contacting the isolated mRNA with a nucleic acid molecule probe that can hybridize to the mRNA encoded by the gene being detected. The nucleic acid probe is sufficient to specifically hybridize under stringent conditions to mRNA or genomic DNA. The probe can be disposed on an address of an array e.g. an array described below. Other suitable probes for use in the diagnostic assays are described herein.

In one format mRNA or cDNA is immobilized on a surface and contacted with the probes for example by running the isolated mRNA on an agarose gel and transferring the mRNA from the gel to a membrane such as nitrocellulose. In an alternative format the probes are immobilized on a surface and the mRNA or cDNA is contacted with the probes for example in a two dimensional gene chip array described below. A skilled artisan can adapt known mRNA detection methods for use in detecting the level of mRNA encoded by the genetic markers described herein.

The level of mRNA in a sample can be evaluated with nucleic acid amplification e.g. by rtPCR Mullis 1987 U.S. Pat. No. 4 683 202 ligase chain reaction Barany 1991 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88 189 193 self sustained sequence replication Guatelli et al. 1990 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87 1874 1878 transcriptional amplification system Kwoh et al. 1989 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86 1173 1177 Q Beta Replicase Lizardi et al. 1988 Bio Technology 6 1197 rolling circle replication Lizardi et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 854 033 or any other nucleic acid amplification method followed by the detection of the amplified molecules using techniques known in the art. As used herein amplification primers are defined as being a pair of nucleic acid molecules that can anneal to 5 or 3 regions of a gene plus and minus strands respectively or vice versa and contain a short region in between. In general amplification primers are from about 10 to 30 nucleotides in length and flank a region from about 50 to 200 nucleotides in length. Under appropriate conditions and with appropriate reagents such primers permit the amplification of a nucleic acid molecule comprising the nucleotide sequence flanked by the primers.

For in situ methods a cell or tissue sample can be prepared processed and immobilized on a support typically a glass slide and then contacted with a probe that can hybridize to mRNA that encodes the genetic marker being analyzed.

Screening methods of the invention can involve the identification of an agent that increases the differentiation of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or the progenitors thereof into oocytes. Such methods will typically involve contacting the germline stem or progenitor cells with a test agent in culture and quantitating the number of new oocytes produced as a result. Comparison to an untreated control can be concurrently assessed. Where an increase in the number of oocytes is detected relative to the control the test agent is determined to have the desired activity. The test agent can also be assayed using a biological sample e.g. ovarian tissue subsequent testing using a population of stem or progenitor cells may be conducted to distinguish the functional activity of the agent e.g. differentiation rather then increase in proliferation or survival where the result is ambiguous.

Increased amounts of oocytes be detected by a decrease in gene expression of stem or progenitor genetic markers including an Dazl Stella and Vasa or an increase in oocyte markers such as HDAC6 GDF9 and ZP3.

Screening methods of the invention can involve the identification of an agent that decreases the proliferation or survival of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or the progenitors thereof. Such methods will typically involve contacting a population of the stem or progenitor cells or a biological sample e.g. ovarian tissue with a test agent in culture and quantitating the number of stem or progenitor cells lost as a result. Comparison to an untreated control can be concurrently assessed. Where a decrease in the number of stem or progenitor cells is detected relative to the control the test agent is determined to have the desired activity.

Peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention or their progenitors can be used in a variety of therapeutic applications e.g. oocyte generation for in vivo restoration or ex vivo procedures including in vitro fertilization and somatic cell nuclear transfer . Accordingly methods of the invention relate to among other things the use of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitor cells to provide genii cells in the treatment of reproductive disorders.

Thus the present invention provides methods for treating infertility comprising providing a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor to a female subject in need thereof wherein the cell engrafts into a tissue and differentiates into an oocyte which can later be provided for fertilization e.g. following ovulation or in vitro fertilization in the subject . Preferably the tissue is ovarian tissue however other tissues in the body may host the engrafted cell that in turn generates an oocyte. Oocytes harbored in extra ovarian tissues can be harvested and used for procedures including in vitro fertilization.

The present invention also provides methods for treating infertility comprising administering an agent that increases the production or survival of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitors. Such agents may also promote cell proliferation or survival thereby enhancing oocyte production.

Agents can be provided directly to the reproductive organ of interest. Alternatively agents can be provided indirectly to the reproductive organ of interest for example by administration into the circulatory system.

The present invention also provides methods for repairing damaged ovarian tissue comprising providing a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor to the ovarian tissue wherein the cell engrafts into the ovarian tissue and differentiates into an oocyte. Except where expressly stated herein the ovarian tissue was not damaged by chemotherapy or radiotherapy.

Damage can be caused for example by exposure to cytotoxic factors hormone deprivation growth factor deprivation cytokine deprivation cell receptor antibodies and the like. Where damage may be caused by an anticipated course of chemotherapy and or radiotherapy administration of an agent that protects against reproductive injury prior to or concurrently with chemotherapy and or radiotherapy can protect fertility and enhance the restoration methods described herein. The protective agent can include but is not limited to S1p Bax or any agent that increases SDF 1 activity i.e. SDF 1 mediated migration and homing of stem cells . For a description of the use of SIP in protecting reproductive systems see U.S. application Ser. No. 10 217 259 filed on Aug. 12 2002 and published as 20030157086 on Aug. 21 2003 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention also provides methods for restoring ovarian function in a menopausal female subject comprising providing a peripheral blood derived female germline stem cell or its progenitor to the subject wherein the cell engrafts into the ovary and differentiates into an oocyte. The menopausal female subject can be in a stage of either peri or post menopause with said menopause caused by either normal e.g. aging or pathological e.g. surgery disease ovarian damage processes.

Ovarian function in a post menopausal female can also be restored by administering an an agent that increases the amount of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitors and or their differentiation into oocytes e.g. by increasing the number or life span of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells as well as by increasing the differentiation of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells into oocytes .

Restoration of ovarian function can relieve adverse symptoms and complications associated with menopausal disorders including but not limited to somatic disorders such as osteoporosis cardiovascular disease somatic sexual dysfunction hot flashes vaginal drying sleep disorders depression irritability loss of libido hormone imbalances and the like as well as cognitive disorders such as loss of memory emotional disorders depression and the like.

Peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention their progenitors or their in vitro derived progeny can be administered as previously described and obtained by all methods known in the art.

Peripheral blood can be isolated by standard methods known in the art which include methods for harvesting umbilical cord blood. In general peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs are taken from a patient using standard techniques. By peripheral blood mononuclear cells or PBMCs herein is meant lymphocytes including T cells B cells NK cells etc. monocytes and stem cells. In some embodiments of the invention only PBMCs are taken either leaving or returning red blood cells and polymorphonuclear leucocytes to the patient. This is done as is known in the art for example using leukophoresis techniques. In general a 5 to 7 liter leukophoresis step it done which essentially removes PBMCs from a patient returning the remaining blood components. Collection of the cell sample is preferably done in the presence of an anticoagulant such as heparin as is known in the art.

In general the sample comprising the PBMCs can be pretreated in a wide variety of ways. Generally once collected the cells can be additionally concentrated if this was not done simultaneously with collection or to further purify and or concentrate the cells. The cells may be washed counted and resuspended in buffer transferred to a sterile closed system for further purification and activation.

The PBMCs are generally concentrated for treatment using standard techniques in the art in a preferred embodiment the leukophoresis collection step results in a concentrated sample of PBMCs in a sterile leukopak that may contain reagents or doses of the suppressive composition as is more fully outlined below. Generally an additional concentration purification step is done such as Ficoil Hypaque density gradient centrifugation as is known in the art. Separation or concentration procedures include but are not limited to magnetic separation using antibody coated magnetic beads affinity chromatography cytotoxic agents either joined to a monoclonal antibody or used with complement panning which uses a monoclonal antibody a to a solid matrix. Antibodies attached to solid matrices such as magnetic beads agarose beads polystyrene beads follow fiber membranes and plastic surfaces allow for direct separation. Cells bound by antibody can be removed or concentration by physically separating the solid support from the cell suspension. The exact conditions a and procedure depend on factors specific to the system employed. The selection of appropriate conditions is well within the skill in the art.

Antibodies may be conjugated to biotin which then can be removed with avidin or streptavidin bound to a support or fluorochromes which can be used with a fluorescence activated cell sorter FACS to enable cell separation. Any technique may be employed as long as it is not detrimental to the viability of the desired cells.

In a preferred embodiment the PBMCs are separated in a automated closed system such as the Nexell Isolex 300i Magnetic Cell Selection System. Generally this is done to maintain sterility and to insure standardization of the methodology used for cell separation activation and development of suppressor cell function.

Once purified or concentrated the cells may be aliquoted and frozen preferably in liquid nitrogen or used immediately as described below. Frozen cells may be thawed and used as needed. Cryoprotective agents which can be used include but are not limited to dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO Lovelock J. E. and Bishop M. W. H. 1959 Nature 183 1394 1395 Ashwood Smith M. J. 1961 Nature 190 1204 1205 hetastarch glycerol polyvinylpyrrolidine Rinfret A. P. 1960 Ann. N.Y. Acad. Sci. 85 576 polyethylene glycol Sloviter H. A. and Ravdin R. G. 1962 Nature 196 548 albumin dextran sucrose ethylene glycol i erythritol D ribitol D mannitol Rowe A. W. et al. 1962 Fed. Proc. 21 157 D sorbitol i inositol D lactose choline chloride Bender M. A. et al. 1960 J. Appl. Physiol. 15 520 amino acids Phan The Tran and Bender M. A 1960 Exp. Cell Res. 20 851 methanol acetamide glycerol monoacetate Lovelock. J. E. 1954 Biochem. J. 56 265 and inorganic salts Phan The Tran and Bender M. A. 1960 Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 104 388 Phan The Tran and Bender M. A. 1961 in Radiobiology Proceedings of the Third Australian Conference on Radiobiology P. L. T. ed. Butterworth London p. 59 . Typically the cells may be stored in 10 DMSO 50 serum and 40 RPMI 1640 medium. Methods of cell separation and purification are found in U.S. Pat. No. 5 888 499 which is expressly incorporated by reference.

In a preferred embodiment the PBMCs are then washed to remove serum proteins and soluble blood components such as autoantibodies inhibitors etc. using techniques well known in the art Generally this involves addition of physiological media or buffer followed by centrifugation. This may be repeated as necessary. They can be resuspended in physiological media preferably AIM V serum free medium Life Technologies since serum contains significant amounts of inhibitors of TGF although buffers such as Hanks balanced salt solution HBBS or physiological buffered saline PBS can also be used.

Generally the cells are then counted in general from 1 10to 2 10white blood cells are collected from a 5 7 liter leukophoresis step. These cells are brought up roughly 200 mls of buffer or media.

Prior to harvest patients may be treated with agents known in the art to increase mobilization of stem cells from the bone marrow or ovary into the peripheral blood. Mobilizing agents include but are not limited to GCSF or GMCSF.

Peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention can if needed be purified from peripheral blood including umbilical cord blood. Therefore peripheral blood derived germline stem cells that can be used in the methods of the invention can comprise a purified sub population of cells including but not limited to female and male germline stem cells. Purified cells can be collected and separated for example by flow cytometry.

Peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention can be autologous obtained from the subject or heterologous e.g. obtained from a donor . Heterologous cells can be provided together with immunosuppressive therapies known in the art to prevent immune rejection of the cells.

According to methods of the invention peripheral blood can be harvested during the lifetime of the subject but a pre menopausal harvest is recommended. Furthermore harvest prior to illness e.g. cancer is desirable and harvest prior to treatment by cytotoxic means e.g. radiation or chemotherapy will improve yield and is therefore also desirable. For increased yield from female donors it may be desirable to coordinate isolation with appropriate stages of the female reproductive cycle that exhibit higher levels of female germline stem cells in the peripheral blood as described in Example 4.

In some embodiments it is beneficial to quantify the number of female germline stem cells or their progenitors present in a sample of peripheral blood. Where the amount of female germline stem cells or their progenitors in a subject is substantially reduced e.g. less than 100 in comparison to that of a healthy subject she can have or be at risk of developing premature ovarian failure. The quantity of female germline stem cells or their progenitors circulating in the peripheral blood can be highest during particular stages of the female reproductive cycle. Thus it may be desirable to coordinate the timing of sample extraction and diagnosis with the timing of such a stage of the female reproductive cycle.

Purified peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitors can be obtained by standard methods known in the art including cell sorting by FACs. Isolated peripheral blood can be sorted using flow cytometers known in the art e.g. a BD Biosciences FACScalibur cytometer based on cell surface expression of Sca 1 van de Rijn et al. 1989 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86 4634 4638 and or c Kit Okada et al. 1991 Blood 78 1706 1712 Okada et al. 1992 Blood 80 3044 3050 following an initial immunomagnetic bead column based fractionation step to obtain lineage depleted lin cells Spangrude et al. 1988 Science 241 58 62 Spangrude and Scollay 1990 Exp. Hematol. 18 920 926 as described Shen et al. 2001 J. Immunol. 166 5027 5033 Calvi et al. 2003 Nature 425 841 846 .

For serial passage based enrichment of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or their progenitors in vitro Meirelles and Nardi 2003 Br. J. Haematol. 123 702 711 Tropel et al. 2004 Exp. Cell Res. 295 395 406 isolated peripheral blood can be plated on plastic in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. with 10 fetal bovine serum Hyclone Logan Utah penicillin streptomycin L glutamine and amphotericin B. About forty eight hours after the initial plating the supernatants containing non adherent cells can be removed and replaced with fresh culture medium after gentle washing. The cultures can then be maintained and passed once confluence is reached e.g. for a total of about three times over the span of about 6 weeks at which time the cultures can be terminated to collect adherent cells for analysis.

Compositions comprising peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitors can be provided directly to the reproductive organ of interest e.g. ovary or testes . Alternatively compositions comprising peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitors can be provided indirectly to the reproductive organ of interest for example by administration into the circulatory system e.g. to extra ovarian circulation .

Prior to administration peripheral blood derived germline stem cells their progenitors or their progeny described herein can optionally be genetically modified in vitro in vivo or ex vivo by introducing heterologous DNA or RNA or protein into the cell by a variety of recombinant methods known to those of skill in the art. These methods are generally grouped into four major categories 1 viral transfer including the use of DNA or RNA viral vectors such as retroviruses including lentiviruses Simian virus 40 SV40 adenovirus Sindbis virus and bovine papillomavirus for example 2 chemical transfer including calcium phosphate transfection and DEAE dextran transfection methods 3 membrane fusion transfer using DNA loaded membranous vesicles such as liposomes red blood cell ghosts and protoplasts for example and 4 physical transfer techniques such as microinjection electroporation or direct naked DNA transfer.

The peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention their progenitors or their in progeny can be genetically altered by insertion of pre selected isolated DNA by substitution of a segment of the cellular genome with pre selected isolated DNA or by deletion of or inactivation of at least a portion of the cellular genome of the cell. Deletion or inactivation of at least a portion of the cellular genome can be accomplished by a variety of means including but not limited to genetic recombination by antisense technology which can include the use of peptide nucleic acids or PNAs or by ribozyme technology for example. The altered genome may contain the genetic sequence of a selectable or screenable marker gene that is expressed so that the cell with altered genome or its progeny can be differentiated from cells having an unaltered genome. For example the marker may be a green red yellow fluorescent protein galactosidase the neomycin resistance gene dihydrofolate reductase DHFR or hygromycin but are not limited to these examples.

In some cases the underlying defect of a pathological state is a mutation in DNA encoding a protein such as a metabolic protein. Preferably the polypeptide encoded by the heterologous DNA lacks a mutation associated with a pathological state. In other cases a pathological state is associated with a decrease in expression of a protein. A genetically altered peripheral blood derived germline stem cell or its progeny may contain DNA encoding such a protein under the control of a promoter that directs strong expression of the recombinant protein. Alternatively the cell may express a gene that can be regulated by an inducible promoter or other control mechanism where conditions necessitate highly controlled regulation or timing of the expression of a protein enzyme or other cell product. Such stem cells when transplanted into a subject suffering from abnormally low expression of the protein produce high levels of the protein to confer a therapeutic benefit. For example the peripheral blood derived germline stem cell of the invention its progenitor or its in vitro derived progeny can contain heterologous DNA encoding genes to be expressed for example in gene therapy. Peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention their progenitors or their in vitro derived progeny can contain heterologous DNA encoding Atm the gene responsible for the human disease Ataxia telangiectasia in which fertility is disrupted. Providing Atm via peripheral blood derived germline stem cells their progenitors or their in vitro derived progeny can further relieve defects in ovarian function. DNA encoding a gene product that alters the functional properties of peripheral blood derived germline stem cells in the absence of any disease state is also envisioned. For example delivery of a gene that inhibits apoptosis or that prevents differentiation would be beneficial.

Insertion of one or more pre selected DNA sequences can be accomplished by homologous recombination or by viral integration into the host cell genome. The desired gene sequence can also be incorporated into the cell particularly into its nucleus using a plasmid expression vector and a nuclear localization sequence. Methods for directing polynucleotides to the nucleus have been described in the art. The genetic material can be introduced using promoters that will allow for the gene of interest to be positively or negatively induced using certain chemicals drugs to be eliminated following administration of a given drug chemical or can be tagged to allow induction by chemicals including but not limited to the tamoxifen responsive mutated estrogen receptor expression in specific cell compartments including but not limited to the cell membrane .

Calcium phosphate transfection can be used to introduce plasmid DNA containing a target gene or polynucleotide into isolated or cultured peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitors and is a standard method of DNA transfer to those of skill in the art. DEAE dextran transfection which is also known to those of skill in the art may be preferred over calcium phosphate transfection where transient transfection is desired as it is often more efficient. Since the cells of the present invention are isolated cells microinjection can be particularly effective for transferring genetic material into the cells. This method is advantageous because it provides delivery of the desired genetic material directly to the nucleus avoiding both cytoplasmic and lysosomal degradation of the injected polynucleotide. This technique has been used effectively to accomplish peripheral blood derived modification in transgenic animals. Cells of the present invention can also be genetically modified using electroporation.

Liposomal delivery of DNA or RNA to genetically modify the cells can be performed using cationic liposomes which form a stable complex with the polynucleotide. For stabilization of the liposome complex dioleoyl phosphatidylethanolamine DOPE or dioleoyl phosphatidylcholine DOPQ can be added. Commercially available reagents for liposomal transfer include Lipofectin Life Technologies . Lipofectin for example is a mixture of the cationic lipid N 1 2 3 dioleyloxy propyl N N N trimethyl ammonia chloride and DOPE. Liposomes can carry larger pieces of DNA can generally protect the polynucleotide from degradation and can be targeted to specific cells or tissues. Cationic lipid mediated gene transfer efficiency can be enhanced by incorporating purified viral or cellular envelope components such as the purified G glycoprotein of the vesicular stomatitis virus envelope VSV G . Gene transfer techniques which have been shown effective for delivery of DNA into primary and established mammalian cell lines using lipopolyamine coated DNA can be used to introduce target DNA into the peripheral blood derived germline stem cells described herein.

Naked plasmid DNA can be injected directly into a tissue mass formed of differentiated cells from the isolated peripheral blood derived germline stem cells or their progenitors. This technique has been shown to be effective in transferring plasmid DNA to skeletal muscle tissue where expression in mouse skeletal muscle has been observed for more than 19 months following a single intramuscular injection. More rapidly dividing cells take up naked plasmid DNA more efficiently. Therefore it is advantageous to stimulate cell division prior to treatment with plasmid DNA. Microprojectile gene transfer can also be used to transfer genes into stem cells either in vitro or in vivo. The basic procedure for microprojectile gene transfer was described by J. Wolff in Gene Therapeutics 1994 page 195. Similarly microparticle injection techniques have been described previously and methods are known to those of skill in the art. Signal peptides can be also attached to plasmid DNA to direct the DNA to the nucleus for more efficient expression.

Viral vectors are used to genetically alter peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the present invention and their progeny. Viral vectors are used as are the physical methods previously described to deliver one or more target genes polynucleotides antisense molecules or ribozyme sequences for example into the cells. Viral vectors and methods for using them to deliver DNA to cells are well known to those of skill in the art. Examples of viral vectors that can be used to genetically alter the cells of the present invention include but are not limited to adenoviral vectors adeno associated viral vectors retroviral vectors including lentiviral vectors alphaviral vectors e.g. Sindbis vectors and herpes virus vectors.

Peptide or protein transfection is another method that can be used to genetically alter peripheral blood derived germline stem cells of the invention and their progeny. Peptides including but not limited to Pep 1 commercially available as Chariot and MPG can quickly and efficiently transport biologically active proteins peptides antibodies and nucleic acids directly into cells with an efficiency of about 60 to about 95 Morris M. C. et al 2001 Nat. Biotech. 19 1173 1176 . Without wishing to be bound by theory the peptide forms a non covalent bond with the macromolecule of interest i.e. protein nucleic acid . The binding reaction stabilizes the protein and protects it from degradation. Upon delivery into the cell of interest such as stem cells of the invention the peptide macromolecule complex dissociates leaving the macromolecule biologically active and free to proceed to its target organelle. Delivery can occur in the presence of absence of serum. Uptake and delivery can occur at 4 C. which eliminates endosomal processing of incoming macromolecules. Movement of macromolecules through the endosomal pathway can modify the macromolecule upon uptake. Peptides such as Pep 1 by directly delivering a protein antibody or peptide of interest bypass the transcription translation process.

Methods of the invention can provide oocyte reserves for use in ex vivo procedures such as somatic cell nuclear transfer. Employing recombinant techniques prior to nuclear transfer will allow for the design of customized oocytes and ultimately produce embryos from which embryonic stem cells can be derived. In addition genetic manipulation of donor DNA prior to nuclear transfer will result in embryos that possess the desired modification or genetic trait.

Methods of somatic cell nuclear transfer are well known in the art. See U.S. application Ser. No. 10 494 074 filed on Mar. 24 2004 and published as 20050064586 Wilmut et al. 1997 Nature 385 810 813 Wakayama et al. 1998 Nature 394 369 374 and Teruhiko et al. 1999 PNAS 96 14984 14989. Nuclear transplantation involves the transplantation of donor cells or cell nuclei into enucleated oocytes. Enucleation of the oocyte can be performed in a number of manners well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Insertion of the donor cell or nucleus into the enucleated oocyte to form a reconstituted cell is usually by microinjection of a donor cell under the zona pellucida prior to fusion. Fusion may be induced by application of a DC electrical pulse across the contact fusion plane electrofusion by exposure of the cells to fusion promoting chemicals such as polyethylene glycol or by way of an inactivated virus such as the Sendai virus. A reconstituted cell is typically activated by electrical and or non electrical means before during and or after fusion of the nuclear donor and recipient oocyte. Activation methods include electric pulses chemically induced shock penetration by sperm increasing levels of divalent cations in the oocyte and reducing phosphorylation of cellular proteins as by way of kinase inhibitors in the oocyte. The activated reconstituted cells or embryos are typically cultured in medium well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and then transferred to the womb of an animal.

Methods for the generation of embryonic stem cells from embryos are also well known in the art. See Evans et al. 1981 Nature 29 154 156 Martin et al. 1981 PNAS 78 7634 7638 Smith et al. 1987 Development Biology 121 1 9 Notarianni et al. 1991 J. Reprod. Suppl. 43 255 260 Chen R L et al. 1997 Biology of Reproduction 57 4 756 764 Wianny et al. 1999 Theriogenology 52 2 195 212 Stekelenburg Hamers et al. 1995 Mol. Reprod. 40 444 454 Thomson et al. 1995 PNAS 92 17 7844 8 and Thomson 1998 Science 282 6 1145 1147. Accordingly embryos produced from oocytes of the invention can be genetically modified either through manipulation of the oocyte in vitro prior to fertilization or manipulation of donor DNA prior to nuclear transfer into the enucleated oocyte to produce embryos having a desired genetic trait.

Oocytes produced from peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells of the invention or progenitors derived from peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells of the invention as described herein can also be used for methods of in vitro fertilization. Accordingly the invention provides methods for in vitro fertilization of a female subject comprising the steps of 

Methods of in vitro fertilization are well known in the art and are now rapidly becoming commonplace. Couples are generally first evaluated to diagnose their particular infertility problem s . These may range from unexplained infertility of both partners to severe problems of the female e.g. endometriosis resulting in nonpatent oviducts with irregular menstrual cycles or polycystic ovarian disease or the male e.g. low sperm count with morphological abnormalities or an inability to ejaculate normally as with spinal peripheral lesions retrograde ejaculation or reversed vasectomy . The results of these evaluations also determine the specific procedure to be performed for each couple.

Procedures often begin with the administration of a drug to down regulate the hypothalamic pituitary system LHRH agonist . This process decreases serum concentrations of the gonadotropins and developing ovarian follicles degenerate thereby providing a set of new follicles at earlier stages of development. This permits more precise control of the maturation of these new follicles by administration of exogenous gonadotropins in the absence of influences by the hypothalamic pituitary axis. The progress of maturation and the number of growing follicles usually four to ten stimulated per ovary are monitored by daily observations using ultrasound and serum estradiol determinations. When the follicles attain preovulatory size 18 21 mm and estradiol concentrations continue to rise linearly the ovulatory response is initiated by exogenous administration of human chorionic gonadotropins hCG .

Oocytes can be obtained from peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or progenitors derived from peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells as previously described herein. Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells or progenitors derived from peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells can be cultured in the presence of an oocyte differentiation agent which induces differentiation into oocytes. The differentiation agent can be supplied exogenously e.g. added to the culture medium or from endogenous sources during co culture with allogenic or heterogenic ovarian tissue. Peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells of the invention can also be cultured in a tissue engineered structure wherein the differentiation agent is either exogenously or endogenously supplied and oocytes are obtained.

Individual oocytes can be evaluated morphologically and transferred to a petri dish containing culture media and heat inactivated serum. A semen sample is provided by the male partner and processed using a swim up procedure whereby the most active motile sperm will be obtained for insemination. If the female s oviducts are present a procedure called GIFT gamete intrafallopian transfer can be performed at this time. By this approach oocyte cumulus complexes surrounded by sperm are placed directly into the oviducts by laproscopy. This procedure best simulates the normal sequences of events and permits fertilization to occur within the oviducts. Not surprisingly GIFT has the highest success rate with 22 of the 3 750 patients undergoing ova retrieval in 1990 having a live delivery. An alternative procedure ZIFT zygote intrafallopian transfer permits the selection of in vitro fertilized zygotes to be transferred to oviducts the day following ova retrieval. Extra zygotes can be cryopreserved at this time for future transfer or for donation to couples without female gametes. Most patients having more serious infertility problems however will require an additional one to two days incubation in culture so that preembryos in the early cleavage states can be selected for transfer to the uterus. This IVF UT in vitro fertilization uterine transfer procedure entails the transcervical transfer of several 2 6 cell day 2 or 8 16 day 3 preembryos to the fundus of the uterus 4 5 preembryos provides optimal success .

Procedures for in vitro fertilization are also described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 610 543 6 585 982 6 544 166 6 352 997 6 281 013 6 196 965 6 130 086 6 110 741 6 040 340 6 011 015 6 010 448 5 961 444 5 882 928 5 827 174 5 760 024 5 744 366 5 635 366 5 691 194 5 627 066 5 563 059 5 541 081 5 538 948 5 532 155 5 512 476 5 360 389 5 296 375 5 160 312 5 147 315 5 084 004 4 902 286 4 865 589 4 846 785 4 845 077 4 832 681 4 790 814 4 725 579 4 701 161 4 654 025 4 642 094 4 589 402 4 339 434 4 326 505 4 193 392 4 062 942 and 3 854 470 the contents of which are specifically incorporated by reference for their description of these procedures.

The following examples are put forth for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention.

It has recently been determined that bone marrow serves as a germline stem cell reservoir for the maintenance of oocyte production in adult females. See U.S. application Ser. No. 11 131 153 filed on May 17 2005 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference. It was therefore proposed that germline stem cell derived progeny utilize the peripheral blood supply as a conduit for travel to the ovaries. As shown herein peripheral blood contains germline stem cells and thus peripheral blood cell transplantation PBCT can be used to rescue oocyte production in female recipients.

For the first of these experiments a doxorubicin insult model was utilized in which there occurs a rapid and spontaneous regeneration of the primordial follicle pool following doxorubicin insult presumably through germline stem cell derived progeny arriving to the ovaries via the general circulation. Accordingly such a model lends itself well to rapidly assessing the contribution of peripheral blood derived germ cells to de novo oocyte production in adult females.

To distinguish between those new oocytes derived from the host versus the donor peripheral blood mononuclear cells were collected from adult transgenic female mice with ubiquitous expression of green fluorescent protein GFP . For PBCT peripheral blood was collected and layered on Ficoll Paque Plus Amersham Biosciences . The samples were centrifuged at 800 g for 15 minutes at 4 C and mononuclear cells were collected from the Ficoll buffer interface. After collection the cells were washed and resuspended in PBS at a final concentration of 3 6 10cell ml. Recipient adult 6 7 weeks of age wild type female mice were injected with doxorubicin 5 mg kg followed by PBCT 0.5 ml of cells per mouse via the tail vein 25 hours later. Twenty four hours after PBCT ovaries were collected and analyzed for GFP expression by immunohistochemistry.

As controls for the experiment GFP expression was detectable in primordial and primary oocytes of transgenic females but was not observed in oocytes of wild type females prior to PBCT . However primordial and early primary follicles with GFP positive oocytes were detected in the ovaries of adult wild type female mice within 24 hours of PBCT . As expected GFP negative primordial and primary oocytes were also found in the same ovaries of mice receiving PBCT representing either those oocytes not destroyed by doxorubicin treatment or new oocytes formed from host germline stem cell derived progeny following the insult.

Next transgenic female mice with GFP expression driven by an 18 kb fragment of the Oct4 promoter in which the proximal enhancer region has been inactivated GOF18 PE or TgOG2 Yeom et al. 1996 Development 122 881 894 Yoshimizu et al. 1999 Dev. Growth Differ. 41 675 684 Szabo et al. 2002 Mech. Dev. 115 157 160 were used as donors for peripheral blood cell transplantation PBCT . Past studies have shown that endogenous Oct4 expression in adult animals is restricted to germ cells Sch ler et al. 1989 EMBO J. 8 2543 2550 Yoshimizu et al. 1999 and the introduction of deletions in the proximal enhancer of the Oct4 promoter PE leads to exclusive expression of the transgene in the germline even during embryogenesis Yeom et al. 1996 .

Peripheral blood was harvested from adult 7 10 weeks of age transgenic female mice with Oct4 specific expression of GFP or from adult male Oct4 GFP transgenic mice and layered on Ficoll Paque Plus Amersham Biosciences GE Healthcare Piscataway N.J. . The samples were centrifuged at 800 g for 15 min at 4 C and mononuclear cells were collected from the Ficoll buffer interface. The cells were then washed and resuspended in PBS at a final concentration of 2 4 10cells ml. In some experiments described below recipient adult 6 7 weeks of age wild type or Atm null female mice were conditioned with chemotherapy as described above for BMT followed by PBCT 0.5 ml of cells per mouse via the tail vein 24 hr later. In all cases ovaries were collected 28 30 hr after PBCT and analyzed for GFP expression by immunohistochemistry. For the experiments involving PBCT using males as donors recipient ovaries were fixed serially sectioned and screened in their entirety for GFP expressing oocytes. As positive controls testicular and ovarian tissues from Oct4 GFP TgOG2 mice were analyzed in parallel to confirm transgene expression in males as well as antigen detection in ovaries.

As controls GFP expression was detected only in primordial and growing oocytes of transgenic females and the GFP signal was absent in oocytes of wild type females prior to PBCT . However primordial follicles with highly GFP positive GFP oocytes were detected in the ovaries of chemo ablated adult wild type female mice within 28 30 hr of PBCT see also .

Similar findings were obtained when the experiments were repeated using chemo ablated Atm null female mice as recipients thus excluding the possibility of a non specific restorative effect of PBCT on endogenous oocyte production in the host females. Moreover transplantation of peripheral blood derived mononuclear cells harvested from adult male TgOG2 mice which also exhibit abundant expression of the transgene in germ cells did not result in the production of GFP oocytes in chemotherapy conditioned female recipients ruling out the possibility that the oocytes observed following transplantation of female peripheral blood developed as a result of fusion between GFP expressing donor cells and any residual host germ cells not destroyed by the chemo ablation protocol.

The ability of peripheral blood derived female germline stem cells and their progenitors collected from Oct 4 GFP transgenic female donors to generate oocytes following transplantation into adult wildtype female mice was further evaluate by immunohistochemical analysis using antibodies specific for MVH generously provided by T. Noce Fujiwara et al. 1994 HDAC6 2162 Cell Signaling Technology Beverly Mass. NOBOX A. Rajkovic Suzumori et al. 2002 GDF 9 AF739 R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. or GFP sc 9996 Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. after high temperature antigen unmasking as recommended by each supplier. For the PBCT studies involving transgenic mice with ubiquitous expression of GFP as donors antigen detection was visualized after tyramide amplification PerkinElmer Boston Mass. due to the low basal level of GFP expression in primordial oocytes in this line of mice unpublished findings . In those experiments using immunofluorescence based antigen detection the sections were mounted with propidium iodide Vectashield Vector Laboratories Burlingame Calif. or TO PRO 3 iodide Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. to visualize nuclei and images were captured using a Zeiss LSM 5 Pascal Confocal Microscope. GFP cells contained within follicles of hosts following transplantation of peripheral blood collected from adult female TgOG2 mice expressed MVH HDAC6 NOBOX and GDF9 supporting their status as germ cells MVH Noce et al. 2001 and oocytes HDAC6 NOBOX Suzumori et al. 2002 GDF9 McGrath et al. 1995 .

These findings along with the expression of germline markers in peripheral blood Example 2 indicate that adult female mice possess circulating germline stem cells that support new oocyte production.

Expression of Dazl and Stella were detected in peripheral blood of mice and humans by RT PCR . Total RNA was extracted from each sample and 1 mg was reverse transcribed Superscript II RT Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. using oligo dT primers. Amplification via 28 40 cycles of PCR was then performed using Taq polymerase and Buffer D Epicentre Madison Wis. with primer sets specific for each gene Supplemental Table S1 . For each sample RNA encoded by the ribosomal gene L7 mouse studies beta actin mouse studies or the glyceraldehyde 3 phosphate dehydrogenase gene GAPDH human studies was amplified and used as a loading control house keeping gene . All PCR products were isolated subcloned and sequenced for confirmation.

Human cord blood was evaluated to determine whether cells that express the germ cell marker Dazl were present. Dazl has previously been detected in germ cells of both human fetal females Brekhman et al. 2000 6 465 468 Tsai et al. 2000 73 627 630 and human males Brekhman et al. 2000 6 465 468 . A single human cord blood sample was split into two replicate samples and RNA was extracted from each. The replicates were then reverse transcribed with mock reverse transcribed negative control samples prepared in parallel. Samples were then used in polymerase chain reaction amplification reactions RT PCR using primers specific for Dazl and the housekeeping gene GAPDH. As shown the cord blood sample used is positive for Dazl in both replicates . Human cord blood is therefore a novel source of germline stem cells or their progenitors for oocyte and sperm production in humans.

One aspect of the PBCT procedure that may impact the number of donor derived oocytes generated is the stage of the donor female s reproductive cycle during which blood is harvested for transplantation. To begin testing whether the number of circulating genii cells fluctuates as a consequence of the estrous cycle peripheral blood was collected from adult female mice during estrus metestrus diestrus and proestrus and then analyzed by real time PCR for Mvh expression. For quantitative analysis of Mvh levels PCR was performed using a Cepheid Smart Cycler II and primers specific for amplification of Mvh FAM labeled LUX Fluorogenic Custom Primers Invitrogen forward SEQ. ID NO 1 cacctcagagggttttccaagcgaggg reverse SEQ ID NO 2 cctcttctgaacgggcctga and beta actin LUX Primer Sets for Housekeeping Genes IOIM 01 Invitrogen . Expression ratios were calculated using the method of Pfaffl 2001 with Mvh levels in bone marrow at estrus set as the reference point 1.0 for comparisons. The levels of this germline marker in peripheral blood were affected by the estrous cycle . These results and those provided earlier in Examples 1 3 collectively indicate that adult female mice possess circulating germline stem cells and their progenitor cells that can generate oocytes and suggest that the stage of the reproductive cycle during which blood is collected may impact the number of germline stem cells and their progenitor cells available for engraftment following transplantation.

