---

title: System and method for moving target detection
abstract: A system and method of detecting moving targets comprises transmitting electromagnetic waves rays from a plurality of transmitters at sequential; receiving reflected waves into a plurality of receivers after each transmission; the compilation of the reflected waves from the plurality of receivers for each transmission representing a data frame; forming a signal that monitors changes between the two sets of frames; at least one processor operating to process and compare frames; forming a difference image using a back-projection algorithm; scanning the difference image using a constant false alarm rate (CFAR) window; the CFAR window scanning the entire difference image and identifying a list of points of interest and eliminating the sidelobe artifacts present in the difference image thereby creating CFAR images; processing the CFAR images using morphological processing to create a morphological image; determining the number of clusters present in the morphological image; using K-means clustering to indicate the centroid of each cluster; and tracking using a Kalman filter. The system comprises a plurality of M transmitters, a plurality of receivers, and at least one memory, the transmitters operating in sequence to transmit electromagnetic waves rays sequentially; the receivers receiving reflected waves after each transmission; the compilation of the reflected waves from the plurality of receivers for each transmission representing a data frame; at least one processor operating to perform the method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08502731&OS=08502731&RS=08502731
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08502731
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110118
---
The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to detection and more particularly to detection of moving targets.

Security and military forces operating in urban environments need the capability to detect slow moving personnel inside buildings. To identify moving personnel inside buildings a time domain approach may be used that uses a low frequency ultrawideband UWB radar. A low frequency UWB radar is desired since the low frequency transmit pulse is capable of penetrating through the wall 1 and the UWB corresponds to a high range resolution that gives the capability to better locate the moving target MT . The publication entitled An Analysis of Clustering Tools for Moving Target Indication by Anthony Martone Roberto Innocenti and Kenneth Ranney Sensors and Electron Devices Directorate Army Research Laboratory Adelphi Md. ARL TR 5037 November 2009 hereinafter ARL Technical Report 5037 hereby incorporated by reference discloses a description of a moving target indication MTI processing approach to detect and track slow moving targets inside buildings which successfully detected moving targets MTs from data collected by a low frequency ultrawideband radar. MTI processing algorithms include change detection CD used to identify the MT signature automatic target detection ATD used to eliminate imaging artifacts and potential false alarms due to target multi bounce effects clustering used to identify a centroid for each cluster in the ATD output images and tracking used to establish a trajectory of the MT. These algorithms can be implemented in a real time or near real time system however a person in the loop is needed to select input parameters for the clustering algorithm. Specifically the number of clusters to input into the cluster algorithm is unknown and requires manual selection. As reported in ARL Technical Report 5037 page 1 the algorithms in the MTI processing formulation can be implemented in a real time or near real time system however a person in the loop is needed to select input parameters for the k Means clustering algorithm. Specifically the number of clusters input into the k Means routine is unknown and requires manual selection. In the ARL Technical Report 5037 two techniques are investigated that automatically determine the number of clusters the knee point KP algorithm and the recursive pixel finding RPF algorithm. The KP algorithm is a well known heuristic approach for determining the number of clusters. The RPF algorithm is analogous to the image processing pixel labeling procedure. Both routines processed data collected by low frequency ultrawideband radar.

In research reported in Martone A. et al. Through the Wall Detection of Slow Moving Personnel Proceedings of the SPIE Conference on Radar Sensor Technology XIII vol. 7308 Orlando Fl April 2009 and Martone A. et al. Moving Target Indication for Transparent Urban Structures ARL TN 4809 U.S. Army Research Laboratory Adelphi Md. May 2009 the effectiveness of time domain moving target indication MTI approach was reported for detecting moving personnel inside wood and cinderblock structures moving personnel walking in nonlinear trajectories and multiple moving personnel walking in linear trajectories.

A time domain approach to MTI was considered as an alternative to a frequency domain approach i.e. Doppler processing since a very small Doppler shift in backscattered frequency is generated due to 1 the slow motion of the mover and 2 the low frequency needed to penetrate through the wall. The reported time domain processing algorithms are based on the change detection CD paradigm which is inherently similar to clutter cancellation. In the CD paradigm the Synchronous Impulse Reconstructive SIRE radar remains stationary and generates a set of images for a region of interest ROI . Each image in the set is formed every two thirds of a second. The stationary objects in the building remain in the same location in each image however moving personnel will be at different locations. The moving personnel can be detected by subtracting adjacent images in the set thereby eliminating the stationary objects and identifying the MT signature. Additional processing is needed to enhance the MT signature and includes a constant false alarm rate CFAR algorithm morphological processing k Means clustering and a tracking algorithm. CFAR and morphological processing are approaches used to eliminate imaging artifacts and potential false alarms due to target multi bounce effects. The k Means clustering algorithm is used to identify centroids for given input clusters where the clusters are produced by the CFAR and morphological processing algorithms. The tracker is used to establish a trajectory of the MT based on the input centroids.

By way of background Synchronous Impulse Reconstruction SIRE Radar is a low frequency ultra wideband UWB radar having a frequency range of 300 MHz 3 GHz. An example of SIRE system is illustrated in showing 2 transmitters and 16 receivers in an antenna array 2 m wide having an average power of 5 mW with a downrange swath is 10 meters and a downrange resolution is 0.056 meters.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention comprises a cluster prediction algorithm for a system to automatically detect and track moving personnel inside buildings. The novel cluster prediction algorithm inter alia 1 automatically determines the number of clusters in an image where each cluster corresponds to a potential moving target 2 reduces false alarms and 3 automates the entire moving target indication MTI system. This fully automated MTI system can be utilized to detect and track hostile personnel enemy snipers or hostages inside buildings. The MTI system could also be used for commercial applications that include 1 law enforcement 2 search and rescue 3 building surveillance 4 vehicle tracking on highways or in remote locations. The MTI system effectively combines several algorithms in a novel way to image slow and fast moving personnel from 6 m to 30 m inside building structures. The MTI system has successfully demonstrated detection capabilities of personnel walking inside wood and cinderblock buildings.

The moving target indication MTI system is comprised of two main components. The first component detects potential moving targets by generating a time series of binary images that contain clusters. The second component of the MTI system tracks the centroid of each cluster thereby indicating any moving target in the building. Both components have been studied individually in past research but could not be combined since the second component requires manual input. Specifically the number of clusters in the binary images output of the first component is unknown and must be manually input into the second component of the system.

As reported in A. Martone et al. Clustering Analysis of Moving Target Signatures Proceedings of the SPIE Conference on Radar Sensor Technologies XIV Orlando Fla. April 2010 hereby incorporated by reference a cluster prediction algorithm has been developed. The cluster prediction algorithm i automatically determines the number of clusters present in the binary images ii reduces false alarms in the binary images iii combines the first and second components of the MTI system thereby automating the entire MTI system. The cluster prediction algorithm is a novel necessary and unique contribution to the MTI system.

A preferred method of detecting moving targets comprises transmitting electromagnetic waves rays from a plurality of transmitters at sequential receiving reflected waves into a plurality of receivers after each transmission the compilation of the reflected waves from the plurality of receivers for each transmission representing a data frame forming a signal that monitors changes between the two sets of frames at least one processor operating to process and compare frames forming a difference image using a back projection algorithm scanning the difference image using a constant false alarm rate CFAR window the CFAR window scanning the entire difference image and identifying a list of points of interest and eliminating the sidelobe artifacts present in the difference image thereby creating CFAR images processing the CFAR images using morphological processing to create a morphological image determining the number of clusters present in the morphological image using K means clustering to indicate the centroid of each cluster and tracking using a Kalman filter.

A preferred embodiment system for detecting moving targets comprises a plurality of M transmitters a plurality of receivers and at least one memory the transmitters operating in sequence to transmit electromagnetic waves rays sequentially the receivers receiving reflected waves after each transmission the compilation of the reflected waves from the plurality of receivers for each transmission representing a data frame at least one processor operating to perform the steps of forming a signal that monitors changes between the two sets of frames at least one processor operating to process and compare frames forming a difference image using a back projection algorithm scanning the difference image using a constant false alarm rate CFAR window the CFAR window scanning the entire difference image and identifying a list of points of interest and eliminating the sidelobe artifacts present in the difference image thereby creating CFAR images processing the CFAR images using morphological processing to create a morphological image determining the number of clusters present in the morphological image using K means clustering to indicate the centroid of each cluster and tracking using a Kalman filter.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The preferred embodiment moving target indication MTI system is comprised of two main components. The first component detects potential moving targets by generating a time series of binary images that contain clusters. The second component of the MTI system tracks the centroid of each cluster thereby indicating any moving target in the building. Both components have been studied individually in past research reported in A. Martone et al. Automatic Through the Wall Detection of Moving Targets using Low Frequency Ultra Wideband Radar Proceedings of the IEEE international radar conference Washington D.C. May 2010 A. Martone et al. An Analysis of Clustering Tools for Moving Target Indication ARL TN 5037 U.S. Army Research Laboratory Adelphi Md. November 2009 A. Martone et al. Through the wall detection of slow moving personnel Proceedings of the SPIE conference on Radar Sensor Technology XIII vol. 7308 Orlando Fl April 2009 and A. Martone et al. Moving Target Indication for Transparent Urban Structures ARL TN 4809 U.S. Army Research Laboratory Adelphi Md. May 2009 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference. However the individual components could not be combined since the second component requires manual input. Specifically the number of clusters in the binary images output of the first component is unknown and must be manually input into the second component of the system.

In recent research reported in A. Martone K. Ranney R. Innocenti Clustering analysis of moving target signatures in Proceedings of the SPIE conference on Radar Sensor Technology XIV Orlando Fl April 2010 hereby incorporated by reference a cluster prediction algorithm has been developed. The cluster prediction algorithm i automatically determines the number of clusters present in the binary images ii reduces false alarms in the binary images iii combines the first and second components of the MTI system thereby automating the entire MTI system. The cluster prediction algorithm is a novel necessary and unique contribution to the MTI system.

To identify moving personnel inside buildings a time domain processing system is utilized that utilizes a low frequency ultra wideband UWB radar. A low frequency UWB radar is desired since the low frequency transmit pulse is capable of penetrating the wall as reported in Farwell M. et al. Sense through the wall system development and design considerations J. of the Franklin Institute September 2008 345 6 570 591 hereby incorporated by reference and the ultra wideband corresponds to a high range resolution that gives the capability to better locate the moving target. The time domain approach to moving target indication MTI is utilized as an alternative to a frequency domain approach i.e. Doppler processing since a very small Doppler shift in backscattered frequency is generated due to 1 the slow motion of the mover and 2 the low frequency needed to penetrate the wall.

The MTI system is shown in . The MTI processing system consists of the following processing routines change detection image formation via a specially adapted version of the back projection algorithm constant false alarm rate CFAR processing morphological processing cluster prediction k Means clustering and tracking via the Kalman filter. Each processing routine is described in detail in the following. As discussed the cluster prediction algorithm has recently been researched and is a novel contribution to the MTI processing system.

The cluster prediction algorithm i automatically determines the number of clusters present in the binary images ii reduces false alarms in the binary images iii combines the detection and tracking components of the MTI system thereby automating the entire system.

The constituent radar in our MTI system remains stationary and measures the energy reflected from an area under surveillance. Downrange profiles are measured and buffered by each receive channel for a single set of transmit pulses. Since the transmitters fire in sequence M downrange profiles are effectively buffered one for each transmitter from each receive channel and the time required to assemble these profiles represents one frame of data. After buffering the data from one frame another M downrange profiles are collected from each receive channel for the next frame of data.

Next the coherent difference between these newly collected profiles is formed and the corresponding buffered profiles are formed to obtain a new data set consisting of modified downrange profiles defined by 111 and 1 1 Here r represents the downrange index i represents the time index j represents the transmitter index and k represents the receiver index. Hence a signal is formed that monitors changes between the two sets of downrange profiles measured at time i and time i 1 using transmitter j and receiver k hence the name of the model is a change detection CD paradigm. The difference signal dot over f r corresponding to the derivative in time is then input to an image formation routine in this case a time domain back projection procedure resulting in the output difference image 

Interpretation of the resulting MT signature is still challenging after change detection. For example change detection cannot automatically identify the MT signature located in the difference image and the MT signature can only be identified through visual inspection of a sequence of difference images. Therefore it is not possible to implement additional signal processing techniques like classification using a single difference image. Another challenge with change detection is that sidelobe artifacts are produced in the difference image which confuse the true moving target location.

A way to improve user interpretation of the resulting difference image is to apply the CFAR algorithm. CFAR is a well established approach to eliminating potential false alarms. Typically the algorithm performs a test of local contrast that is designed to achieve a constant false alarm rate as reported in Gandhi P. P. Kassam S. A. Analysis of CFAR Processors in Homogeneous Background July 1988 24 4 427 445 hereby incorporated by reference. For a given difference image I x y a CFAR window is used to scan the difference image and test for the MT signature. An example of a CFAR window is shown in where Iand Iare the inner windows cross range and range dimensions respectively Gand Gare the guard windows cross range and range dimensions and Oand Oare the outer windows cross range and range dimensions. The inner window dimensions are designed so that it is overlaid on the MT signature. When the inner window is overlaid on the MT signature the outer window dimensions are designed to be superimposed on the local background. The guard window is used as a buffer between the inner and outer windows and ensures that large pixel values due to target sidelobes are not captured by the outer window. For example consider the window that is placed in the difference image shown in . As is illustrated in the figure the inner window is overlaid on the MT signature pixels and the outer window is overlaid on the local background pixels.

Based on observations and analysis of the MT signatures the following dimensions for the CFAR window were selected I 7 I 9 G 23 G 25 O 27 O 29 note that a 1 1 pixel equals 0.04 0.04 meters . It is of interest to note that the dimensions of the inner window constitute a small rectangular shape which is different from the elliptical patterns of the MT signatures. The rectangular shape is chosen since it is small enough to fit over the MT signatures. The small rectangular window is used as an alternative to an elliptical window since the size and shape of the pattern of the moving target changes depending on the range and cross range of the mover s position.

The CFAR window is placed in the difference image of size 500 500 and moved pixel by pixel over the entire difference image. Let the center of the CFAR window be positioned at coordinates X Y in the difference image where X 2 . . . 500 O 2 and Y O 2 . . . 500 O 2 . The notation x denotes the largest integer less than x for x 0 i.e. floor and x denotes the smallest integer greater than x for x 0 i.e. ceiling . The CFAR algorithm indicates an MT signature if the sum of the energy in the inner window is larger than the sum of the energy in the outer window. This is shown in where the energy of the pixels in the inner window is larger then the energy of the pixels in the outer window. The inner window to outer window energy ratio is defined as

Next morphological processing is applied to further refine the number of clusters present in the CFAR images. The morphological processing considered implements a dilation and erosion procedure. Dilation is used to grow the POI clusters and erosion is used to shrink the POI clusters. The dilation process is designed to connect clusters in close proximity by dilating all pixels in each CFAR image. For dilation define a 17 17 dilation window is defined as 

The 17 17 dilation window size was chosen to connect clusters separated by a distance of 0.68 m or less this distance was chosen based on observations of the clusters in the CFAR images . Similar to CFAR a dilation test statistic is defined 

Next an erosion procedure is applied to reduce the size of the clusters in the dilation image back to their original size in the CFAR image. Any clusters joined using the dilation process will remain joined after the erosion process. For erosion a 17 17 erosion window is defined as 

The k Means algorithm is referenced Wilpon J. et al. A Modified K means Clustering Algorithm for Use in Isolated Work Recognition IEEE Transactions on Acoustics Speech and Signal Processing vol. 33 no. 3 July 1985 587 594 hereby incorporated by reference. Note that the k Means algorithm requires the number of clusters present in the morphological images and is provided by the cluster prediction algorithm described in the section entitled Cluster Prediction Algorithm. A cluster is defined as a group of one or more POIs that are close to one another in the image. The total number of clusters present in the morphological image referred to as T. For example consider the POIs in a morphological image where each POI corresponds to a blue diamond. When these images are input into a clustering algorithm two clusters are identified the clusters and corresponding centroids are shown in . The POIs connected to each other form a cluster as illustrated in . As is shown T 2 clusters are present in the morphological image. Once the number of clusters in the image is known the k Means algorithm is used to indicate the centroid of each cluster.

The k Means algorithm identifies the centroids of the POIs by an iterative procedure. This iterative procedure minimizes the square error between centroid estimates and their corresponding POIs. It should be noted that the clusters identified by the clustering algorithm are not unique and it is possible that the centroid locations differ for different iterations of the clustering algorithm. A block diagram of the k Means algorithm is shown in .

The input morphological image contains a set of M POI vectors where each vector is of size two and contains range and cross range position information. The k Means algorithm begins by randomly generating T mean vectors and defining each mean vector to be a centroid location. Note that at this point T is unknown and must be manually defined. The adaptive KP algorithm can be leveraged to automatically determine T. The next step of the k Means algorithm determines the mean vector nearest to each POI using the Euclidean distance measure. An error offset is then estimated between the mean vector and nearest POIs using the sum of squares SOS error criteria as referenced in Duta R et al. Pattern Classification 2nd ed. John Wiley and Sons Inc. New York N.Y. 2001 hereby incorporated by reference. This SOS error criterion is a measure of variance between the POI vectors and the nearest mean vectors and must be minimized. Once minimized the SOS error indicates the final centroid estimates represented by the mean vectors. For example consider the morphological image in . In this example two mean vectors were randomly generated and indicated by the red diamond and black star. As the k Means algorithm iterates several centroids are estimated. Each newly generated estimate corresponds to a smaller SOS error.

Illustrated in is a k Means algorithm iteration example for T 2. The red line indicates progression of the first mean vector and the black line indicates progression of the second mean vector. Multiple iterations are needed to minimize the error between the POIs and nearest mean vectors.

The tracker algorithm is intended to reduce the number of false alarms and segregate targets from both clutter and one another as they move inside a building. The centroids generated by the clustering algorithm serve as inputs to the tracker so it is possible to have multiple tracker inputs even when a single moving target is present. These centroids may indicate the true position of a moving target or false alarms. The tracker estimates the correlation between each centroid and the existing tracks and then associates the existing tracks with the most highly correlated i.e. most reasonable centroid. Non assigned centroids are used to initiate new tracks and outdated tracks are deleted. A Kalman filter determines the present track position and predicts the next measurement.

The Knee Point KP algorithm i.e. non adaptive is one approach to automatically determine T for a particular morphological image. The KP algorithm is a heuristic approach used to determine the optimal number of clusters as referenced in Thorndike R. Who belongs in the family Psychometrika December 1953 18 4 267 276 and Zhao Q. et al. Knee Point Detection on Bayesian Information Criteria Proceedings of the 20th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence vol. 2 November 2008 431 438 hereby incorporated by reference. The KP algorithm begins by repeating the k Means algorithm for many different cluster number choices where the maximum cluster number is denoted by C. This will produce a set of minimized SOS errors . . . where is the Nminimized SOS error and N 1 2 . . . C denotes the cluster number choice. is normalized by max to obtain max 12 where is the inormalized minimized SOS NMSOS error. A heuristic used to identify the number of clusters searches for a large drop in NMSOS error i.e. the knee point. For example consider the images shown in . By visual inspection it would appear that two clusters are present in the images i.e. T 2 . The NMSOS errors for each image of are plotted in where N 1 . . . C. As is shown in a large gap exists between N 1 and N 2 thereby indicating that the predicted number of clusters N is 2. N 2 correctly corresponds to the true number of clusters T in the images. Shown in are images with POIs present. Through a visual inspection of the images it would appear that two clusters are present T 2 .

In the previous research article A. Martone et al. ARL TN 5037 U.S. Army Research Laboratory Adelphi MD November 2009 the KP algorithm was used without the proposed training adaptation to identify the number of clusters present in the morphological images. It was determined that the knee point indicated by the KP algorithm is ambiguous. For example consider the NMSOS errors illustrated in which illustrates plots of the NMSOS errors organized for different values of T. These NMSOS errors were estimated using the KP algorithm on data collected by the SIRE radar. As is shown in some NMSOS errors clearly indicate that two clusters are present. However other NMSOS errors in resemble those illustrated in where T 1.

The ambiguity of the NMSOS errors motivates the need to adapt the KP algorithm to include training information. The training information consists of NMSOS errors obtained by the KP algorithm. In addition each NMSOS error in the training set contains a label 1 . . . C indicating T. The training set therefore consists of a set of M training vectors J . . . J consisting of the NMSOS errors and their corresponding labels where J . . . equation 12 is a set of NMSOS errors. A block diagram of the adaptive KP algorithm is shown in . For a given morphological image with an unknown number of clusters the NMSOS errors are first determined and denoted as J J . . . J. The k Nearest Neighbor k NN classifier then utilizes the training set to automatically determine the number of clusters i.e. N corresponding to the morphological image. The k NN classifier first estimates the distance between Jand J . . . J based on Euclidean distance. The distance values are denoted as d . . . d where

The distances are then sorted from smallest to largest to produce S . . . S where Scorresponds to the smallest distance corresponds to the label of the smallest distance Scorresponds to the largest distance and corresponds to the label of the largest distance. Once sorted the labels of the K smallest distances . . . are examined based on a majority vote. Define K K . . . K as a set corresponding to the number of labels in . . . of each class where a class denotes T . For example if 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 3 3 where C 3 then K 4 K 2 K 3 . A predicted label can then be determined for Jas 

As used herein the terminology target means a person or persons or portion thereof animal or animals object or a combination thereof.

As used herein the terminology point of interest or points of interest refer to an signature or area in the image which appears to be a target but may or may not be a target i.e. potentially the point of interest may be a target subject to further processing or testing.

As used herein the terminology subimage or sub image means a portion of an image also referred to herein as a patch or the like.

As used herein the terminology processor includes computer controller CPU microprocessor multiprocessor minicomputer main frame personal computer PC coprocessor and combinations thereof or any machine similar to a computer or processor which is capable of processing algorithms.

As used herein the terminology the terminology process means an algorithm software subroutine computer program or methodology.

As used herein the terminology algorithm means sequence of steps using computer software process software subroutine computer program or methodology.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

