---

title: Systems and methods for identifying caller locations
abstract: In one embodiment, the present disclosure provides a method, system and device for determining information about a location of the mobile device. The mobile device is configured to contact a private response call center (PRCC), e.g., by pressing or selecting one or more buttons or a softmenu. A PRCC operator can identify a potential emergency situation and, upon such an identification, initiate a conference call between a PRCC operator, a user of the mobile device, and a public safety answering point (PSAP) operator. The mobile device may transmit location information previously determined before PRCC call and be commanded to gather new location information during the call. The mobile device may also, while on a call with the PRCC, determine and transmit to the PRCC location information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08489066&OS=08489066&RS=08489066
owner: GreatCall, Inc.
number: 08489066
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110211
---
This disclosure relates in general to determining information about a location of a mobile device and but not by way of limitation to transmitting such real time information to an public safety answering point PSAP amongst other things.

Nearly all locations within the United States and Canada are now served by 911 emergency telephone service and many other countries have similar services that can have a different telephone number. In the 911 system calls to the telephone number 9 1 1 are specially routed to a PSAP where a specially trained dispatcher can assess the nature of the emergency offer assistance dispatch emergency services or law enforcement personnel to the source of the call or provide other services. Many PSAPs are interconnected to allow routing calls and other information between them.

The 911 service facilitates rapid response by the appropriate authorities in cases of emergency. However sending the appropriate authorities to the scene of an emergency requires information about the location of the emergency. While a call from a land line can be easily attributed to an address associated with the number. It is less certain that a call from a mobile device can be traced to a particular address and accountholder address is certainly less accurate at any given moment than that for a land line.

The location finding technology available to PSAPs is not generally accessible to other third parties that might be called or even to application layer software on the phone. Tracing the location by a third party is not possible today. If the individual is unable to sufficiently articulate and describe his location the third party cannot determine where to send emergency personnel.

In one embodiment the present disclosure provides a method system and device for determining information about a location of the mobile device. The mobile device is configured to contact a private response call center PRCC e.g. by pressing or selecting one or more buttons or a softmenu. A PRCC operator can identify a potential emergency situation and upon such an identification initiate a conference call between a PRCC operator a user of the mobile device and a public safety answering point PSAP operator. The mobile device may transmit location information previously determined before PRCC call and be commanded to gather new location information during the call. The mobile device may also while on a call with the PRCC determine and transmit to the PRCC location information.

In another embodiment a wireless communication system with enhanced location processing for a number of mobile devices using the wireless communication system is disclosed. The wireless communication system includes a first interface to a public safety answering point PSAP a second interface to a private response call center PRCC and a mobile device. The mobile device includes a location determining function an input interface and a first and second communication functions. The location determining function operates in a first mode and second mode. The input interface is configured to receive user inputs where transition from the first mode to the second mode is triggered by the user inputs. The first communication function is configured to have a wireless voice call with the PRCC triggered by the user inputs. The second communication function is configured to wirelessly pass location information to the PRCC in the second mode. Location determinations are made by the location determining function in the first mode at a rate slower than location determinations in the second mode. Location determinations are made by the location determining function in a call connected state in the second mode.

In yet another embodiment a mobile device for wirelessly communicating with a private response call center PRCC is disclosed. The mobile device includes a location determining function an input interface and a first and second communication functions. The location determining function operates in a first mode and second mode. The input interface is configured to receive user inputs where transition from the first mode to the second mode is triggered by the user inputs. The first communication function is configured to have a wireless voice call with the PRCC triggered by the user inputs. The second communication function is configured to wirelessly pass location information to the PRCC in the second mode. Location determinations are made by the location determining function in the first mode at a rate slower than location determinations in the second mode. Location determinations are made by the location determining function in a call connected state in the second mode.

In still another embodiment a method for a mobile device to process information about its location that is sent to a PRCC. Location information is determined for the mobile device in a first mode. User inputs are received. A transition from a first mode to a second mode is triggered. A wireless communication over a wireless network to the PRCC in the second mode is initiated. The PRCC is called from the mobile device. Location information is sent to the PRCC using the wireless network. Location information is determined for the mobile device in the second mode. Updated location information is sent to the PRCC in the second mode using the wireless network while in a call connected state.

Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating various embodiments are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.

In the appended figures similar components and or features may have the same reference label. Further various components of the same type may be distinguished by following the reference label by a dash and a second label that distinguishes among the similar components. If only the first reference label is used in the specification the description is applicable to any one of the similar components having the same first reference label irrespective of the second reference label.

The ensuing description provides preferred exemplary embodiment s only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the disclosure. Rather the ensuing description of the preferred exemplary embodiment s will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing a preferred exemplary embodiment. It is understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope as set forth in the appended claims.

Referring initially to a schematic diagram of an embodiment of a mobile device network is shown. Each cell is served by one or more base stations which includes a number of antenna mounted on a tower . Each mobile device active in a particular cell can bi directionally interact with the base station of the cell enabling full duplex communication of data and or voice. Mobile device may include for example a cellular phone a medical alert pendant a smartphone or a personal digital assistant. Each cell is capable of communicating with mobile device within the respective cell according to a physical interface scheme e.g. CDMA LTE HSPA GSM GPRS WiMax etc. . Each base station is capable of communicating simultaneously with many different mobile devices . Although not shown there are several overlapping mobile device networks to service mobile devices from different carriers.

Adjacent cells use various diversity techniques to avoid interference. In this way many mobile devices can be supported using a limited spectra. While only three cells are shown many more cells are present in a typical mobile device network . Special hand off protocols may be used for maintaining communication with a particular mobile device that moves from one cell to another during a call.

Each base station communicates with a network controller . The network controller routes communications e.g. calls and data between cells and outside e.g. telephone and Internet providers monitor device usage maintain billing records for individual device accounts perform diagnostic tests and perform many other functions.

When performing a mobile subscriber assisted MS A location determination the mobile device first queries a domain name service DNS for the address of the position determining entity PDE . After knowing the address the PDE is called to assist in determining the location of the mobile device . Trilateration with multiple base stations and or ranging techniques can be used by the PDE to estimate location. When the mobile device performs a mobile subscriber based MS B location determination using an internal circuit along performing data calls that will produce the almanac and ephemeris information. The PDE also provides almanac and ephemeris A E information to aid the mobile device in determining location with subsequent MS B request. The A E information is used on subsequent MS B requests without using a data call. Should the A E information become out of date or inaccurate the next MS B request will get new A E information if a data connection is available.

With reference to a block diagram of an embodiment of a network controller in communication with the Internet a plain old telephone system POTS a public safety answering point PSAP and a private response call center PRCC is shown. A wide area network WAN interface a POTS interface a SMS interface an emergency interface and a private response interface are shown but the network controller may also include other interfaces between network and other networks organizations or services. For example there could be other interfaces to location services data services billing systems toll free number routing services etc.

Although it could be elsewhere in the network controller a phone bridge can create a three way call with the end user PSAP personnel and the PRCC personnel. Where there is an emergency that should not be handled by the PRCC the end user is connected to the PSAP and the PRCC personnel may or may not remain on the line. In other embodiments the three way call is initiated on the mobile device .

WAN interface connects network with the Internet . The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks and enables digital communication between computers. Applications of the Internet include the carrying of electronic mail audio and video feeds voice over Internet protocol VoIP and other kinds of digital messages. One especially popular use of the Internet is for the hosting and viewing of interlinked documents on the World Wide Web. Many modern mobile devices including cellular telephones of the kind supported by network include the capability to access documents and communications through the Internet for example sending and receiving electronic mail and viewing web pages. Other embodiments could us a wide area network WAN separate from or tunneled through the Internet .

SMS messages to and from the mobile devices are relayed by the SMS interface through the WAN interface and onto the Internet . Connections to different SMS systems are performed through the Internet so that any SMS message can be sent or received from any two mobile devices regardless of country or carrier. The Internet is used for data channels to the PSAP and PRCC for example to send location requests and location determinations. Phone calls to the PSAP and PRCC could be over the Internet using VoIP technology instead of POTS .

POTS interface connects network with the plain old telephone system POTS . POTS comprise for example a large number of traditional wireline telephones and other communications equipment as well as the infrastructure required to support them. Many residential and small business telephones are part of POTS which may still support telephone hardware. POTS interface enables users of mobile devices that are part of network to call telephones that utilize POTS and vice versa. Connections with the PSAP and PRCC can be over POTS .

Emergency interface connects network to PSAP so that calls to the 911 emergency number made by mobile phone users on network can be routed to a PSAP or routed between multiple PSAPs . The PSAP may be additionally served by POTS VoIP or by another communication system. Although users dial 9 1 1 to reach emergency responders in some countries others may have a different number that is dialed. In any event most phone systems have a segregated emergency response service that has special routing priorities and safeguards which are not fully accessible to other services that might be designed for the system . These regulatory safeguards protect the emergency interface when communicating with the PSAP . There are similar safeguards on the mobile devices to keep software in the user plane from interacting with the emergency call routing of the control plane.

Private response interface connects network to PRCC . For example PRCC may be operated by a service provider who offers personalized assistance to phone users who subscribe to the service. In some embodiments the service provider may offer personal health management advice concierge services navigational assistance roadside assistance car unlock services car status information technical support for telephones used in conjunction with the service or other kinds of personalized services deliverable by telephone. PRCC may be staffed by customer service representatives who answer inquiries from users of the service. Such a service may especially appeal to users with safety concerns or health or other impairments. For example the service could include weekly or daily calls to the user for verification that the user is doing well and if not the customer service representative may offer to contact a family member health care provider or other resource that may be helpful to the client. The service could include these and other services sold as a package. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 981 822 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety provides further embodiments and descriptions related to for example PRCC and mobile devices.

In one example scenario the service provider that operates the PRCC may also be a mobile device service provider and may offer a private assistance service as an adjunct to mobile device service. The PRCC can be contacted for non emergency service through a phone number a dedicated button screen softbutton speed dial or other shortcut for example by activating a 5 key combination. Software on the phone would recognize the special key combination to enter an alarm state. The connection between network controller and PRCC could be by way of the Internet a wireless connection a VoIP connection a cellular telephone connection POTS or any other suitable connection method that enables a telephone user to reach PRCC .

Referring next to a state diagram of one embodiment of states that are performed by a mobile device is shown. This is not an exhaustive list of all the states of the mobile device are possible but details the states associated with location gathering for various calls to the PSAP and PRCC . This state diagram operates separately from any regulated emergency location function in the control plane of the mobile device .

Upon power up of the mobile device an initialization state is entered. A MS A location request is performed to get an initial location fix. Breadcrumbing state is next and is the normal state of operation. In the breadcrumbing state periodic MS B locations are recorded in the mobile device along with A E information that is updated when needed. Upon a call to the PRCC through the 5 key combination or activation of the softmenu operation transitions to the alarm state . In this embodiment location fixes are performed every 20 minutes but other embodiments could perform location fixes more frequently than every one two three five ten fifteen thirty or sixty minutes.

In the alarm state the last location gathered in the breadcrumbing state is reported to the PRCC using a channel outside the voice channel. This embodiment uses a SMS channel to send location information but other embodiments could use a data channel or tones on the voice channel. The PRCC will request updated MS B location determinations using a SMS message. The messaging back and forth using the SMS channel is opaque to the user of the mobile device such that the SMS messages are not discoverable during normal operation by the user. With updated location information the PRCC can better assist the user resolve the issue that prompted the call. Regular location fixes are sent in the alarm state for example less than every 5 10 15 20 30 45 60 or 90 seconds.

Occasionally the operator at the PRCC determines the caller has an emergency of the type best handled by the PSAP . Alternatively the user can call 911 directly from the breadcrumbing state . In any event the PSAP is dialed upon entry to the emergency state . When transitioning from the alarm state the operator from the PRCC can remain on the line in a three way call to assist the user who may be impaired in some way. Of course the user can ask that the PRCC operator exit the call. In some embodiments when the user calls 911 from the breadcrumbing state a PRCC operator is also called to be able to join the conversation with additional information.

With reference to an embodiment of a block diagram of a mobile device is shown. Mobile device includes a radio transceiver for communicating with network and an input interface e.g. button s keypad touch screen voice recognition etc for receiving inputs from the user of mobile device . Operation of the functions of the mobile device are separated into planes or layers. In this embodiment there is an application layer where applets are run long with storing information in a electronic file system EFS . The EFS could be any number of storage media either built into the phone or placed in a socket e.g. flash RAM removable flash card etc. A firmware hardware layer has a firmware application programming interface API only allowing certain calls from the application layer . Defined APIs allow making calls sending SMS making data calls performing location determinations or other functionality defined by the hardware of the mobile device and the associated firmware.

The EFS stores many different types of information such as contacts messages photos video music or anything else that might reside on the mobile device . Pertinent here the EFS has a location information store holding valid location determinations found using the breadcrumb applet . Additionally there is an almanac and ephemeris information store that holds the latest A E information found with a MS B location determination. To perform a MS B location determination any prior almanac and ephemeris information is retrieved from the EFS and provided to an autonomous location circuit . If the A E information is bad new A E information is retrieved and stored on the EFS .

The breadcrumb applet takes care of the initialization and breadcrumb states . MS A and MS B location requests are performed by the breadcrumb applet and valid results are stored in the location information store . Along with a location result an estimated accuracy and a timestamp are stored in the EFS . The breadcrumb applet makes the BREW iPosDet call to the firmware API . The validity and update of the almanac and ephemeris information is also performed by the breadcrumb applet .

The alarm state corresponds to a phone connection with the PRCC however that call is initiated. The alarm applet triggers the breadcrumb applet to perform MS B location updates upon prompts received on the SMS location channel . In this embodiment the data channel cannot be used for normal data calls so the SMS location channel provides for two way data communication between the mobile device and the PRCC . The updated MS B location determination can be read by the alarm applet from the location information store before relay back to the PRCC .

The SMS location channel interacts with a SMS function in the hardware firmware layer by way of the firmware API . The SMS messages pass through the data channel unimpeded during use of the voice channel . Other phone systems allow use of the data channel during a phone call so the SMS location channel would be unnecessary in favor of normal data packet communication with the PRCC .

The chipset of the current embodiment supports an assisted location circuit and an autonomous location circuit . Both circuits are used by an emergency location function of the regulated 911 function. The emergency location function cannot be accessed by the application layer in this embodiment. Other embodiments could use the emergency location function to get the location fixes without a complex process of calls.

The assisted location circuit is used for MS A location calls and the autonomous location circuit is used for MS B location calls. Using trilateration and ranging with base stations the assisted location circuit uses the system to estimate location as prompted in a MS A call. Additionally a data call is made on the data channel to get the location fix to complete the MS A location call. Because the data call is not possible while the voice channel is being used in this embodiment only MS B location calls with valid A E information are performed while the voice channel is in use. The autonomous location circuit uses GPS or other techniques to determine location without a data call each time. Accurate almanac and ephemeris information is proved to the autonomous location circuit in this embodiment before a valid MS B location fix can be determined.

Referring next to a flowchart of an embodiment of a process for the initialization and breadcrumbing states is shown. The depicted portion of the process begins upon entry into the initialization state in block . The PDE has a URL that is resolved using the DNS to an IP address. That IP address is stored for later use. In block a MS A Position determination call is made to the firmware API . The resulting location fix is stored in the EFS in block .

In preparation for a loop of activity the clear counter value is reset in block and a wait of 20 minutes is performed in block . By agreement the data channel is to be queried no more frequently than every 15 minutes for location fixes. The 20 minute holding block assures that location fixes are not any more frequent than desired. Other embodiments could avoid bock or have a different value to wait. Now in the breadcrumbing state block performs a MS B Position determination call to the firmware API . Almanac and ephemeris information is provided as part of the MS B call. Should a valid location determination be made it is stored in the EFS in block before looping back to block to wait before gathering the next location fix.

Should no MS B location be obtained in block processing jumps to block where the fail counter is incremented. The MS B location fix could fail because the autonomous location circuit received faulty or out of date almanac and ephemeris information or that the satellites or other beacons cannot be found to properly trilaterate a location. In block it is determined if the fail counter is n or more e.g. n could be equal to 2 3 4 5 6 or more . Where there are less than n failures the loop including blocks and are attempted again.

Where there are n MS B failures in a row processing goes from block to block . Where there has been no MS A request in the last hour processing goes from block to block to perform a MS A location fix before looping through the other blocks. This process robustly gathers location information periodically without overtaxing the data channel .

With reference to a block diagram of an embodiment of a PRCC is shown. PRCC includes a data channel and voice channel for communicating with network but could use other wired or wireless connections in other embodiments. The data channel communicates through SMS during a phone call with a subscribing user in this embodiment. The PRCC also includes an input interface for receiving inputs from an operator of PRCC for example a microphone a multi key keypad a touch screen or other input devices. Also a display is included for communicating information to the operator for example an LCD screen a CRT screen a projector or another kind of display capable of showing graphical or alphanumeric information.

PRCC operator software runs on a general purpose computer with interfaces to the voice channel and a SMS command data function . Calls from the mobile devices are received on the voice channel . A call to the PSAP can also be initiated over the voice channel using a phone bridge to optionally make a three way call. The voice channel could be POTS wireless or VoIP.

The PRCC operator software has access to enhanced information on each caller. Demographic information is stored for the subscribing users. Additionally a user information store holds special information unique to the situation of the subscribing user for example medications treatment regiment doctors allergies automobiles work addresses alternative phone numbers contact information for relatives etc. Some mobile devices have medical sensors or equipment built in or linked to the mobile device e.g. EKG blood glucose heart rate etc. . Medical readings can be stored in the user information store . The user information store gives a much richer picture of the subscribing user than the PSAP would have. The PRCC operator can advocate and explain things to the PSAP in an emergency where the subscribing user is likely impaired.

The information stored in the user information store could be historical or live. Live information is sent on the SMS channel or another data channel while connected on the phone with the user. The user information store could draw information from the phone while in a call connected state by gathering information stored on the phone or associated with the account e.g. calling logs voicemail contact lists stored or live photos stored or live video . The live video and photos could be displayed by the PRCC operator software .

Additionally a social network information store holds information about the user s social network. Contact information for friends and family are available. Account information is available so that recent activity can be gathered for insight into the particular situation. For example the user may not be able to speak at the moment but there might be a tweet explaining a case of laryngitis. The location information of friends and family might be used to presume a location for the user when an accurate fix is not readily available. For example a mother s location may be presumed knowing a toddler s current location.

Location information is stored for the mobile device of each subscribing user. The location information includes the latest fix but also includes historical location fixes. For situations where the current location is believed inaccurate or unknown the historical information can provide likely locations. For example the location could be roughly in a building where MS A and MS B fixes are rare the historical information could be used to predict the location. Also the work address from the user information store may be used to predict if the subscribing user is near the building he or she is likely on the floor of their work address.

Location information also includes information about the current location. It could include localized weather temperature from a weather service or read from a sensor on the phone accelerometer and gyroscope information read by the phone. This information could be gathered live or from a historical log on the phone and or the location information store. The accelerometer information could be analyzed to determine if the user is stationary or moving running or walking etc. The gyroscope information could be used to determine if the user is likely standing on the ground or has dropped the mobile device .

The data channel provides connectivity between the PRCC and the mobile devices . The SMS command data function is the interface to the SMS data channel to provide two way communication. A location update component asks the mobile device for a location update when the voice channel is in use. In this embodiment the SMS channel is available while the voice channel is occupied. The location update component records the location fixes in the location information store .

With reference to a block diagram of an embodiment of a PRCC is shown. This embodiment sends information between the mobile device and the PRCC using the data channel directly without having to rely upon SMS. Data freely flows over the data channel or Internet. Phone systems that allow simultaneous voice and data communication use this embodiment.

Referring next to a flowchart of an embodiment of a process for the alarm state is shown. The depicted portion of the process begins in block where the alarm state is activated with a keypad command button press or softmenu activation. A call is placed to the PRCC over the voice channel in block . The user demographic information user information and social networking stores are automatically queried based upon a recognition of the caller ID information in block . The mobile device s alarm applet queries the EFS for the last valid location in block .

In block the alarm applet for mobile device sends the location information when it was determined and its accuracy to the PRCC using the SMS location channel . The location information is received in block and provided to the operator in block . The location information is also stored at the PRCC . The location information is displayed by the PRCC operator software so that the location context for the call is readily discernable. A heatmap of prior readings or dots for prior readings could be overlaid on a map around the user s current location.

It could be that the location information sent initially to the PRCC is minutes old at least and could be even more stale. Location information is gathered in a loop of blocks to provide location information from the mobile device to the PRCC . The mobile device attempts to find the most accurate MS B reading it can achieve in this embodiment. In block the accuracy is set to its highest level. In block a MS B is requested. If found at that level of requested accuracy the location fix is stored in the EFS in block and sent back to the PRCC by looping back to block .

Where the MS B call fails in block processing loops back to block where the failure is reported back to the PRCC on the SMS channel. Where the resolution isn t already at the lowest accuracy as determined in block the accuracy requested is lowered in block before attempting another MS B fix in block before doing another revolution in this loop. Should multiple loops have occurred lowering the accuracy in block on each revolution it is determined in block that processing should jump to block to set the accuracy to its highest level again before repeating this part of the process. In this way the mobile device is regularly and exhaustively attempting to get a MS B location fix while in the alarm state .

Referring next to a flowchart of an embodiment of a process for the alarm state is shown. This embodiment does not iteratively try different levels of accuracy by removing blocks and . Processing goes from block to block where a predetermined level of accuracy is set. Resolutions are either made or not in block at the desired level of accuracy. The chipset provides the best position fix that it can but the accuracy is not as clear in this embodiment when compared to the embodiment of .

With reference to a flowchart of an embodiment of a process for the emergency state is shown. The depicted portion of the process begins in block where the PRCC operator concludes the user is having an actual emergency. The PRCC operator software uses the location fix to find the appropriate PSAP in block . The voice channel is used in conjunction with the phone bridge to initiate a three way call in block . Should there be a supported datalink between the PRCC and PSAP some or all the information on the user can be passed to the PRCC in block

The PRCC operator can optionally stay on the line to assist the user in interacting with the PSAP in block . The PRCC operator will update the user information store with any pertinent information from the call in block . Some embodiments have a data link between the PSAP and PRCC that is automatically reconciled in block so that the PRCC knows the status and disposition from the activities of the PSAP . Optionally the PRCC operator can call the user after the PSAP call ends to follow up. For example if there are signs of a heart attack that the PSAP believes may be false indicators the PRCC operator can call back in ten minutes to see if the user s symptoms have improved or gotten worse.

Referring next to an exemplary environment with which embodiments may be implemented is shown with a computer system that can be used by an operator in the PRCC for example. The computer system can include a computer keyboard a network router a printer and a monitor . The monitor computer and keyboard are part of a computer system which can be a laptop computer desktop computer handheld computer mobile handset mainframe computer etc. The monitor can be a CRT flat screen built in display etc.

An operator can input commands into the computer using various input devices such as a mouse keypad keyboard track ball touch screen etc. If the computer system comprises a mainframe an operator can access the computer using for example a terminal or terminal interface. Additionally the computer system may be connected to a printer and a server using a network router which may connect to the Internet or a WAN.

The server may for example be used to store additional software programs and data. In one embodiment software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the server . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the server . In another embodiment software implementing the systems and methods described herein can be stored on a storage medium in the computer . Thus the software can be run from the storage medium in the computer system . Therefore in this embodiment the software can be used whether or not computer is connected to network router . Printer may be connected directly to computer in which case the computer system can print whether or not it is connected to network router .

With reference to an embodiment of a special purpose computer system is shown. The above methods may be implemented by computer program products that direct a computer system to perform the actions of the above described methods and components. Each such computer program product may comprise sets of instructions codes embodied on a computer readable medium that directs the processor of a computer system to perform corresponding actions. The instructions may be configured to run in sequential order or in parallel such as under different processing threads or in a combination thereof. After loading the computer program products on a general purpose computer system it is transformed into the special purpose computer system .

Special purpose computer system comprises a computer a monitor coupled to computer one or more additional user output devices optional coupled to computer one or more user input devices e.g. keyboard mouse track ball touch screen coupled to computer an optional communications interface coupled to computer a computer program product stored in a tangible computer readable memory in computer . Computer program product directs system to perform the above described methods. Computer may include one or more processors that communicate with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem . These peripheral devices may include user output device s user input device s communications interface and a storage subsystem such as random access memory RAM and non volatile storage drive e.g. disk drive optical drive solid state drive which are forms of tangible computer readable memory.

Computer program product may be stored in non volatile storage drive or another computer readable medium accessible to computer and loaded into memory . Each processor may comprise a microprocessor such as a microprocessor from Intel or Advanced Micro Devices Inc. or the like. To support computer program product the computer runs an operating system that handles the communications of product with the above noted components as well as the communications between the above noted components in support of the computer program product . Exemplary operating systems include Windows or the like from Microsoft Corporation Solaris from Oracle LINUX UNIX and the like.

User input devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to input information to computer system . These may include a keyboard a keypad a mouse a scanner a digital drawing pad a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In various embodiments user input devices are typically embodied as a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote a drawing tablet a voice command system. User input devices typically allow a user to select objects icons text and the like that appear on the monitor via a command such as a click of a button or the like. User output devices include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to output information from computer . These may include a display e.g. monitor printers non visual displays such as audio output devices etc.

Communications interface provides an interface to other communication networks and devices and may serve as an interface to receive data from and transmit data to other systems WANs and or the Internet . Embodiments of communications interface typically include an Ethernet card a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN a asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit a FireWire interface a USB interface a wireless network adapter and the like. For example communications interface may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments communications interface may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer and or may be a software program or the like.

RAM and non volatile storage drive are examples of tangible computer readable media configured to store data such as computer program product embodiments of the present invention including executable computer code human readable code or the like. Other types of tangible computer readable media include floppy disks removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMs DVDs bar codes semiconductor memories such as flash memories read only memories ROMs battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like. RAM and non volatile storage drive may be configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of various embodiments of the present invention as described above.

Software instruction sets that provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in RAM and non volatile storage drive . These instruction sets or code may be executed by the processor s . RAM and non volatile storage drive may also provide a repository to store data and data structures used in accordance with the present invention. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM to store of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. RAM and non volatile storage drive may include a file storage subsystem providing persistent non volatile storage of program and or data files. RAM and non volatile storage drive may also include removable storage systems such as removable flash memory.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism to allow the various components and subsystems of computer communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses or communication paths within the computer .

Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example systems structures and other components may be shown as components in block diagram form in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known processes procedures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that individual embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations may be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process may be terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in a figure. Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by manual techniques automatic techniques or any combination thereof.

While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with specific apparatuses and methods it is to be clearly understood that this description is made only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the disclosure.

