---

title: Enhanced organization and automatic navigation of display screens facilitating automation control
abstract: The disclosed subject matter comprises an enhanced screen organizer component (ESOC) that can efficiently control organization and presentation of desired screens, which relate to an industrial control system, to a user. At design time, a designer employs the ESOC to select and organize one or more screens for a project relating to a control system, create and organize screen folders that can contain desired folders or screens in a hierarchical fashion, select a home screen or favorite screens, respectively, for the operator, role or group, wherein a home screen can be a screen a user views when authenticated into a terminal or the screen the user can be returned to in response to selection of a home control. During run time, the user can access desired screens, and use context menus to select a home screen, favorite screens, or other screens, in accordance with user access rights.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08566923&OS=08566923&RS=08566923
owner: Rockwell Automation Technologies, Inc.
number: 08566923
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110201
---
The subject disclosure relates to automation control and more specifically to enhanced organization and automatic navigation of display screens to facilitate automation control in an industrial control system.

Industrial control systems can be employed to regulate operation of equipment in an industrial environment where operation of the equipment can include process es typically directed to accomplishment of a complex task or a streamlined automated task such as large scale manufacturing. Regulation of operation of the equipment and related process es typically exploits and produces substantive amounts of control data which include configuration data such as controller code human machine interface HMI data process recipe s and report definitions or the like. In addition operation of industrial control systems also produces both real time and historical data about the status of regulated equipment and related process es the data including alarms process values and audit error logs. To operate industrial control systems various HMIs in the industrial environment render control data real time or last known and historical data through operator interfaces which convey process overviews or equipment detail. Multiple operator interfaces can be created to provide rich information related to the various control processes implemented in the industrial control system so that the operator can switch between them to monitor various aspects of the equipment and related process es under control. Various factors contribute to the time and human resources necessary to configure an operator interface s employed to render control data in an industrial environment and arrange an operator interface s in relation to other operator interfaces or other items e.g. folders controls etc. such factors include for example complexity of the application associated with the control system complexity of the equipment and related process es that are regulated through one or more controllers amount of control data collected as part of controlling the equipment and the related process es and security protocols and associated data necessary to ensure operational integrity of the equipment.

Further during run time when an application associated with a control system includes a significant number of operator interfaces e.g. screens that a user has to interact with to facilitate monitoring and controlling operations of the control system management of the various operator interfaces can be challenging. Various factors contribute to the difficulties faced by a user e.g. operator due to having to manage interact or navigate a significant number of operator interfaces during run time wherein the factors can include for example the number of operator interfaces associated with the application the respective types of interfaces the complexity of the application control system and or associated equipment the amount of control data collected as part of controlling the equipment and the related process es the frequency with which a user has to transition from one operator interface to another and security protocols and associated data necessary to ensure operational integrity of the equipment. Further different users who perform different functions in relation to the application and control system can desire or require different subsets of operator interfaces during run time. Conventional industrial control systems fail to manage operator interfaces effectively. Moreover due in part to the various roles of users and various levels of trust associated with respective users in relation to the application and control system security of operator interfaces associated with an application and associated control system is a concern.

The above described deficiencies of today s systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the subject disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements of the subject disclosure or to delineate any scope. The sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The disclosed subject matter can provide for efficient organization storage and presentation of screens also referred to herein as for example application or control system screens or operator interfaces which relate to an industrial control system in a hierarchical architecture for use by a user e.g. operator plant supervisor etc. during run time. In accordance with various aspects and embodiments the disclosed subject matter can comprise an enhanced screen organizer component ESOC that can be employed during design time to organize one or more screens of an application into a logical presentation e.g. into logical containers as specified by a designer for example. The ESOC also can be employed during run time by a user e.g. operator supervisor maintenance person etc. to desirably access the screens or folders that contain screens to facilitate monitoring or controlling operation of a control system as more fully disclosed herein.

During design time which can be prior to run time concurrent with run time or at other times other than at run time e.g. between run time periods the ESOC can be used to desirably organize one or more screens relating to a project associated with an industrial control system wherein the screens can be organized and placed into e.g. stored in one or more respective folders that can be created using the ESOC and or a folder can be created and stored in another folder to create another level in the multi level hierarchical screen organization system. The ESOC also can be employed to select a particular screen as a home screen wherein as desired a screen s can be selected to be a global or default home screen or a respective home screen relating to a particular user group of users or role of a user for example. During run time the home screen can be a screen first presented to the user at the terminal when authenticated into a terminal or the screen the user can be returned to in response to selection of a home control.

In another aspect during design time the designer also can select one or more of the screens of a project as favorites e.g. pre selected or pre configured favorite screens wherein the screens that are included in the favorites folder can be accessed e.g. during run time by selection of the favorites control e.g. in a tool bar or menu to display the favorite screens and selection of the desired favorite screen e.g. during run time . The information e.g. code or other data relating to the organization of the screens and folders for the project can be stored e.g. in a data store on a flash drive or storage disk etc. . When the terminal is booted up and or accessed by a user e.g. operator supervisor maintenance person etc. the stored information can be retrieved and used to present the screens folders menus controls etc. in accordance with the design structure implemented by the designer.

During run time a user such as an operator or supervisor can boot up or access a terminal e.g. comprising a human machine interface HMI associated with a control system open the project e.g. open the application associated with a control system and or provide proper authentication credentials to access the terminal and or project. When authentication is employed in response to receiving proper authentication credentials the user can be granted a subset of access rights in relation to the project based at least in part on the authentication credentials presented and or role of the user. While accessing the terminal the user can access all or a portion of the desirably organized folders and screens in accordance with the user s access rights to facilitate for example monitoring operation of the control system adjusting parameters to the control system and or making changes to the control system etc. For instance an operator monitoring operation of a particular portion e.g. sub system of a control system can access a screen that represents the layout and or high level operating conditions of that control system portion and if desired the operator can select a desired folder or screen in a menu e.g. pop up or overlay menu that appears in response to a hover or other user action or tool bar e.g. located in a portion of the display or pop up or overlay tool bar that appears in response to a hover or other user action to access another screen that drills down to a particular piece e.g. data structures system parameters equipment e.g. conveyer belt in control system etc. of the control system portion or access another screen of a different portion of the control system.

In still another aspect as desired the terminal can display a favorites folder or menu e.g. in a portion of the display or in response to user action to cause it to display and the user can access favorite screens by selecting the favorites control to access a favorites folder or menu and or select e.g. automatically or dynamically a screen as a favorite screen to be stored in the favorites folder or menu or as a home screen in response to user actions or commands e.g. selecting or clicking on a screen wherein for example a context menu such as a long press context menu can be presented to enable the user to select or store the screen as a favorite screen or home screen . In another aspect a favorite screen s also can be automatically or dynamically identified and stored in the favorites folder or menu based at least in part on predefined screen selection criteria e.g. frequency or trending of usage of a screen over a given time period most recently used screens in accordance with user specified favorite screen selection preferences etc. . As desired there can be respective favorites folders or menus associated with respective users roles etc. and or a global favorites folder or menu usable by all or some users.

In accordance with various aspects the disclosed subject matter can comprise a system that includes at least one processor configured to execute one or more sets of code instructions retained in at least one memory the one or more sets of code instructions when executed by the at least one processor implement a group of components. The system also can include an ESOC that is configured to organize one or more screens and one or more folders in relation to each other in a multi tier structure in accordance with at least one predefined organization criterion to generate an organized screen folder structure which is associated with an application that facilitates operation of a control system. The system can further include an interface component that is configured to present at least a portion of the organized screen folder structure comprising at least a portion of the one or more screens and the one or more folders in accordance with the organized screen folder structure to facilitate the operation of the control system.

In accordance with various other aspects the disclosed subject matter can include a method comprising employing at least one processor to execute code instructions retained in a memory the code instructions when executed by the at least one processor perform at least the following group of acts. The method further comprising the act of organizing one or more screens and one or more folders in relation to each other to form a multi level organized application structure at least during design time based at least in part on predefined organization criteria and an application associated with an industrial control system wherein the multi level organized application structure facilitates controlling at least a portion of the industrial control system during run time. The method also comprising the act of presenting at least a portion of the one or more screens and the one or more folders that are part of the multi level organized application structure.

In accordance with still other aspects the disclosed subject matter can comprise a computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium that retains computer readable instructions that when executed by at least one processor cause at least one processor to organize one or more screens and one or more folders in relation to each other to form a multi tier organized application structure at least during design time based at least in part on predefined organization criteria and an application associated with an industrial control system wherein the multi tier organized application structure facilitates control of at least a portion of the industrial control system during run time and display at least a portion of the one or more screens and the one or more folders in accordance with the multi level organized application structure.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be employed and is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface client and the like can refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the terms set or subset as employed herein exclude the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set or a subset in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

The disclosed subject matter comprises an enhanced screen organizer component ESOC that can efficiently control organization and presentation of desired screens e.g. operator interfaces which relate to an industrial control system to a user. At design time a designer employs the ESOC to select and organize one or more screens for a project relating to a control system create and organize screen folders that can contain desired folders or screens in a hierarchical fashion select a home screen or favorite screens respectively for the operator role or group wherein a home screen can be a screen a user views when authenticated into a terminal or the screen the user can be returned to in response to selection of a home control. During run time the user can access desired screens and use context menus to select a home screen favorite screens or other screens in accordance with user access rights.

In accordance with various aspects and embodiments the system can comprise an ESOC that can be employed during design time and or run time to desirably create and or organize one or more screens relating to a project associated with an industrial control system. In an aspect the ESOC can be associated with e.g. communicatively coupled to an interface component that can be employed to receive user input e.g. data user selections etc. receive input from the control system e.g. control system information associated with operation of the control system and or present e.g. display present via audio etc. information e.g. screens folders control system information etc. to a user using a terminal not shown in associated with e.g. that includes the interface component .

As desired in accordance with the control system application and desired design e.g. arrangement of screens and folders in a multi tier design structure the user can utilize the ESOC via the interface component to generate organize or place e.g. store one or more screens in to one or more respective folders that can be created e.g. generated using the ESOC create and store a folder in another folder to create another level in the multi tier design structure also referred to herein for example as a multi level hierarchical screen organization structure a multi tier screen folder structure a multi tier organized application structure or multi level organized application structure and or create or locate a screen on its own outside of a folder. Also as desired a particular screen can be associated with e.g. stored in more than one folder. For instance a first folder e.g. container can be employed to contain screens including a particular screen relating to a particular portion of a sub system of a control system and a second folder can be employed to contain screens including that particular screen that provide certain parameter values for the sub system. In such instance the user e.g. operator supervisor can access that particular screen by accessing or selecting either the first folder or second folder. In an aspect in addition to the direct use of a particular screen there can exist multiple references to the same screen where each reference can contain a different set of parameter data. For example one reference of that screen can be accessed or used by one user e.g. operator while another reference of that screen can be accessed or used by another user e.g. supervisor or another operator or one reference of that screen can be accessed or used on the terminal while another reference of that screen can be accessed or used on a remote terminal. Essentially with the multiple references to the same screen the content of the screen can be shared multiple times within the application and can provide inheritance so that a change to the screen can be reflected in all instances of the screen within the multi level hierarchical screen organization structure e.g. a menu in such structure .

In one aspect using e.g. manipulating selecting one or more controls provided by the ESOC via the interface component the user e.g. designer who also can be an operator or supervisor can create or remove a screen or folder name or re name a screen or folder add or remove a screen or folder to from another folder control access to a folder or screen e.g. allow or restrict access to a folder or screen for example based at least in part on the user type of group of users or type of role etc. or filter the viewing of folders and or screens by users. During the design time which can be prior to run time concurrent with run time or at another time other than during run time using e.g. manipulating selecting the one or more controls provided by the ESOC via the interface component the user can view configure and organize the folders and screens in an application can configure or define the display of the folders and screens during run time including navigation of the folders and screens can filter the display of folders and screens to respective users groups of users or roles during run time e.g. to facilitate controlling access to the folders and screens in accordance with one or more user characteristics such as name of user role of user user group to which the user belongs etc. etc.

In an aspect using the ESOC and interface component the multi tier design structure as initially designed during a design time period prior to run time can be modified during run time e.g. while on line or at other desired times e.g. time periods between run time periods . For instance the ESOC via the interface component can provide a subset of configuration screens and or menus comprising a subset of configuration options and associated controls usable to select or implement desired configuration options to enable a user to modify the multi tier design structure during run time or at other desired times. During run time the subset of configuration screens and or menus and the subset of configuration options and associated controls can be the same or different than the configuration screens menus options or controls available to a user during a design time period that is not during run time. For example if desired the configuration screens menus options or controls can be more limited during run time than during a design time period that is not during run time. In another aspect the subset of configuration screens and or menus and the subset of configuration options and associated controls presented or available for access by a user can be controlled based at least in part on the access rights granted to the user and or the role of the user. Thus one user e.g. a designer can or may have access to more configuration screens menus options or controls than another user e.g. operator in accordance with respective access rights of the users and or respective roles of the users.

In another aspect using a desired control e.g. display name control the user e.g. designer can assign a display name to each screen e.g. display name can be Room B for a screen that contains information relating to Room B of the control system . The display name for a screen can be the same as or different from the name assigned to the screen for the project or application. For instance the display name for a screen can be Room B as the icon of the screen is displayed on the display of the interface component while the name of the screen can be for example ProjectX RoomB StatusParameters as it is defined for the project or application so the screen name will be the name that is called by the ESOC to access that screen. In still another aspect the display name can be localized to support multiple languages e.g. English Spanish French Italian German Japanese Chinese etc. such that the user e.g. operator can select a desired language so that display names e.g. as shown in a menu or as otherwise displayed on the display can be modified e.g. translated to and or displayed in the desired language to the user via the interface component or alternatively or additionally the desired language can be automatically selected based at least in part on the authentication credentials of the user wherein the user s authentication credentials can be mapped to a particular language desired by the user to be used to display information to the user.

In yet another aspect an item e.g. screen folder etc. can be represented by a generic icon or can be represented by a graphical icon image or picture e.g. thumbnail image or picture that can aid in allowing the user to more easily recognize what the item is to facilitate navigation by the user to the desired item and associated location. For example the graphical icon or picture for a particular screen can be a thumbnail picture of the particular screen wherein a picture or depiction of the particular screen as it is normally displayed can be scaled down to the size desired for the graphical icon or picture.

In still another aspect respective screens can be parameterized such that the same screen with different subsets of data can be used to respectively display different portions of a component s e.g. machine conveyer etc. of the control system associated with the screen. There can be multiple instances or references of this same screen wherein the respective multiple instances or references of the same screen can have respective e.g. different subsets of data. In an aspect the ESOC can provide via the interface component a menu system comprising one or more shortcut controls that can allow the user by manipulating or selecting the shortcut control to quickly navigate from a first instance of a screen having a first data subset to one or more other instances of the screen having respective data subsets. This menu system can be initiated or accessed using for example a physical button or soft button associated with a keyboard or touch screen GUI display. This menu system can be on an HMI and can be visible to a user when looking at the display screen but also can be available e.g. visible if the HMI application is being viewed remotely via for example a thin or thick client that can be connected to the HMI application via a wireline or wireless communication network such as more fully disclosed herein.

During run time at least during an initial e.g. first run time session the hierarchy of folders and screens for an application or project can be available for display via the interface component as configured or defined by the designer when the application or project was created by the designer although the operator or other user can employ the ESOC to modify the organization of folders and screens e.g. modify favorites modify home screen as permitted in accordance with the access rights granted to the operator or other user and or the ESOC can modify the organization of folders and screens e.g. modify favorites modify home screen in accordance with predefined organization criteria.

The predefined organization criteria can relate to for example the functions or components of the control system the application associated with the control system the screens available in the application type s of screen information relating to the control system that is contained in a screen relation of a screen or folder to another screen or folder control system parameters associated with a particular screen suitability of a screen to be a home screen suitability of a screen to be a favorite screen frequency e.g. expected frequency of observed frequency or recency of accessing a particular screen length of time of accessing of a screen relative to other screens likelihood that a user who will utilize a first screen will also utilize another particular screen or folder likelihood that a user who will utilize a first screen will next utilize another particular screen or folder type of user type of user group role of a user access rights of a user work functions to be performed by a user in relation to the application and control system etc.

In another aspect a screen can comprise information relating to the control system wherein the information can comprise for example objects representing items e.g. pieces of equipment in the control system pieces generated using the control system etc. data objects or structures associated with the control system parameter values e.g. static parameters dynamically changing parameters associated with the control system etc. A screen can relate to or represent an overview e.g. graphical illustration of an entire control system or portion thereof a particular process e.g. mixing process measuring process etc. or piece e.g. piece of equipment such as a conveyer belt of the control system parameter values relating to operations of the portion of the control system included in the screen etc. The information contained in or presented by a particular screen can be changing e.g. dynamically over time for the associated control system so data presented on a screen at one particular time can be different or same as data presented on the screen at another moment in time.

In an aspect using a specified control or menu e.g. long press context menu by the ESOC e.g. via the interface component the ESOC also can be employed e.g. by a designer or other user to select a particular screen associated with a control system as a home screen e.g. pre configured home screen subsequently selected home screen wherein as desired a screen s can be selected to be a global or default home screen e.g. a home screen assigned e.g. automatically or by default to a user s when no other screen has been selected as a home screen for that user s or a respective home screen relating to a particular user group of users or role e.g. operator supervisor maintenance person etc. of a user for that application for example. For instance it can be desirable for an operator who monitors and operates a particular portion of a control system to have one particular screen e.g. screen representing that particular portion of the control system as a home screen and for the supervisor who monitors a larger portion of the control system to have a different screen e.g. screen representing the entire or a larger portion of the control system as a home screen. As such the designer or other user e.g. operator supervisor can select a particular screen as a home screen e.g. when in accordance with granted access rights . During run time the home screen of the user of the terminal typically can be a screen first presented to the user in a display screen of the interface component at the terminal e.g. via a human machine interface HMI when authenticated to be granted access the terminal or can be the screen the user can be returned to e.g. as displayed in a display screen of the interface component in response to selection of a home control on the interface component by the user.

In still another aspect during design time using a specified control or menu provided by the ESOC via interface component the designer also can select one or more of the screens of a project as favorites e.g. pre selected or pre configured favorite screens wherein e.g. during run time the screens that are included in the favorites folder or menu can be accessed by selection of the favorites control e.g. in a tool bar or menu which can be provided via the interface component to display the favorite screens associated with the user and the desired favorite screen e.g. during run time can be selected by the user using the interface component e.g. touch screen interface keyboard mouse etc. . The information e.g. code or other data relating to the organization of the screens and folders for the project can be stored in a desired storage location e.g. in a data store on a flash drive or storage disk etc. . The information can be stored on or can be accessible by the terminal during run time so that the application can be operated in accordance with the design structure for the organization of folders and screens in the application as specified by the designer. When the terminal is booted up and or accessed by a user e.g. operator supervisor maintenance person etc. the stored information can be retrieved by the ESOC and used by the ESOC to present the screens folders menus controls etc. in accordance with the multi tier design structure implemented by the designer.

In an aspect the ESOC of the terminal also can contain pre build content that can be stored in a data store associated with the ESOC at all times or as otherwise desired. The pre build content can comprise for example a terminal configuration screen one or more trend screens an alarm management screen or other desired content wherein the pre build content can facilitate at least some level of operation of the terminal and or at least some level of operation of management of or feedback from the control system associated with the terminal. Even if an application is not yet loaded on the terminal or if an application is not opened or accessed the ESOC can present via the interface component a menu system that can provide navigation to the pre built content. In the design environment the ESOC can provide one or more functions via the interface component that can enable a user to choose a location s within a menu where the user desires the navigation of the pre build screens to appear. As a result the ESOC can be available on the terminal at all times or desired times and there can be at least some default content that can be made available to the user.

During run time a user such as an operator or supervisor can boot up or access the terminal e.g. comprising or associated with ESOC and interface component associated with the control system open the project e.g. open the application associated with a control system and or provide proper authentication credentials to access the terminal and or project. When authentication is employed in response to receiving proper authentication credentials the user can be granted a subset of access rights in relation to the application or project associated with the control system based at least in part on the authentication credentials presented name of the user role of the user and or user group with which the user is associated. While accessing the terminal using the ESOC and interface component e.g. using one or more controls and one or more menus provided by the ESOC via the interface component the user can access all or a portion of the desirably organized folders and screens in accordance with the user s access rights and multi tier design structure of the screens and folders to facilitate for example monitoring operation of the control system adjusting parameters to the control system and or making changes to the control system etc. For instance via the interface component an operator monitoring operation of a particular portion e.g. sub system of a control system can access and display a screen that represents the layout and or high level operating conditions of that control system portion and if desired the operator can select a desired folder or screen in a menu e.g. pop up or overlay menu that appears in response to a hover or other user action or tool bar e.g. located in a portion of the display or pop up or overlay tool bar that appears in response to a hover or other user action to access another screen that drills down to a particular piece e.g. data structures system parameters equipment e.g. conveyer belt in the control system etc. of the control system portion or access another screen of a different portion of the control system.

It is to be appreciated and understood that in accordance with various aspects and embodiments with regard to items e.g. screens folders controls etc. the term access can mean that the user can see all of the items on the display of the interface component and only can open and or go into those items for which the user is granted access rights or can mean that the user can see all of the items on the display but the items for which the user is not granted access rights can be grayed out as displayed while the items for which the user is granted access rights can be displayed more prominently than the grayed out items or can mean that only the items for which the user is granted access rights can be displayed on the display of the interface component but other items for which the user does not have access rights are not displayed on the display of the interface component .

In still another aspect as desired the interface component associated with the terminal can display a favorites folder or menu e.g. in a portion of the display or in response to user action to cause the favorites folder or menu to display and the user can access a favorite screen by selecting the favorites control displayed in a menu of controls to access the favorites folder or menu and or can select e.g. automatically or dynamically a screen as a favorite screen to be stored in the favorites folder or menu or as a home screen in response to user actions or commands e.g. selecting or clicking on a screen received via the interface component and implemented by the ESOC . For example the ESOC can provide a context menu such as a long press context menu that can be presented to the user via the interface component to enable the user to select or store the screen as a favorite screen or a home screen wherein in response to specified user activity e.g. continuous user input in relation to a screen e.g. mouse clicking or touching the screen continuously for a predefined amount of time the long press context menu of the ESOC can identify that the current screen has been selected to be a favorite screen or a home screen depending in part on the function e.g. favorite screen selection function home screen selection function being implemented by the long press context menu. In another aspect the ESOC also can automatically or dynamically identify and store a favorite screen s in the favorites folder or menu based at least in part on the predefined organization criteria which can comprise for example predefined screen selection criteria e.g. frequency or trending of usage of a screen over a given time period most recently used screens in accordance with user specified favorite screen selection preferences etc. . As desired there can be respective favorites folders or menus associated with respective users roles etc. and or a global favorites folder or menu usable by all or some users in accordance with respective access rights of the users.

In another aspect during design time or at another desired time a user e.g. designer supervisor can utilize the ESOC via the interface component to control access to respective screens or folders associated with an application wherein access rights to a particular subset of screens and or folders can be associated with e.g. tied or mapped to authentication credentials e.g. username password personal identification number PIN and or biometric authentication credentials e.g. fingerprint facial recognition eye scan etc. etc. that can be assigned or provided to a user. When a user attempts to access the terminal or application the ESOC via the interface component can prompt the user to enter authentication credentials in order to access the terminal or application. The user can enter authentication credentials via the interface component . The ESOC can analyze the authentication credentials received from the user and can compare the received authentication credentials to stored authentication credentials to determine whether the received authentication credentials match any of the stored authentication credentials.

If the authentication credentials entered into the interface component do not match any of the stored authentication credentials the ESOC can determine that access is to be denied to the user and or can prompt the user to attempt to enter authentication credentials again for example up to a predefined maximum number of authentication attempts wherein if authentication fails up to the point where the predefined maximum number of authentication attempts is met the user can be locked out of the terminal or application for at least a predefined amount of time and or a notification of the authentication failure can be provided to a desired entity e.g. a supervisor or plant manager . If the ESOC determines the received authentication credentials e.g. during any valid authentication attempt match stored authentication credentials the ESOC can analyze the authentication credentials to identify the access rights that are to be granted to the user based at least in part on the validated authentication credentials. For instance the authentication credentials can be associated with e.g. mapped to a subset of access rights to the terminal or application wherein the access rights can relate to or be associated with e.g. mapped to the screens or folders that can be accessed by the user organization of the screens or folders in the hierarchical organization structure favorite screens associated with the user home screen associated with the user user preferences desired types and or arrangements of menus and or tool bars history of the user e.g. history of actions of the user in relation to the application or terminal etc.

In accordance with the identified access rights for the user the ESOC can control access to the set of screens and folders associated with the application by the user. For instance the ESOC can filter the set of screens and folders associated with the application to generate a subset of screens and folders wherein the ESOC can control access of the user by only allowing the user to access the subset of screens and folders and can restrict access to the other screens and folders in the set by the user. As a result when using the terminal and associated interface component the user can only access those screens and folders of the subset of screens and folders for which the user has access rights wherein the subset of screens and folders can be arranged in relation to each other in accordance with the multi tier design structure specified by the designer during design time including any modification to the arrangement that is in accord with the multi tier design structure .

In an aspect authentication credentials associated with one subset of access rights can be the same or different than authentication credentials associated with that same subset of access rights. That is a subset of access rights can be associated with one or more respective sets of authentication credentials for example when the respective authentication credentials are associated with users having the same or similar role or users that are part of the same group of users. Additionally or alternatively users that are to have the same access rights can be provided the same authentication credentials.

In another aspect the authentication credentials can be provided to the interface component by a user using a touch screen interface keyboard or keypad mouse biometric interface magnetic stripe reader radio frequency identification RFID reader bar code reader e.g. scanner smart card reader or other desired interface of the interface component . In an embodiment the user can have an identification ID card e.g. employee ID card RFID tag and or smart card etc. that can comprise the user s authentication credentials or a portion thereof e.g. stored on the card .

To further illustrate certain aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates an example menu or tool bar that can be employed to facilitate navigating and accessing screens and folders associated with an application in accordance with aspects of the disclosed subject matter and illustrate example screens associated with a control system in accordance with aspects of the disclosed subject matter. With regard to the menu is a menu or tool bar that can be presented on a display screen of the interface component to present desired controls screens folders etc. to the user in relation to the application associated with a control system to facilitate accessing desired folders or screens or performing other desired functions for example during run time.

It is to be appreciated and understood that the icons associated with e.g. representative of the items e.g. controls screens folders etc. and the display name text for the respective items can be configured on a per screen basis and or per user basis. For example a particular item e.g. screen can have a first display name text e.g. Room B when displayed on a first screen and that same particular item can have a second display name text e.g. Material Processing Room when displayed on a second screen. As another example a particular item e.g. screen can be displayed having a first display name text e.g. Room B when accessed by a first user in accordance with a first set of authentication credentials and that same particular item can be displayed having a second display name text e.g. Material Processing Room when accessed by a second user in accordance with a second set of authentication credentials e.g. based at least in part on user preferences of the respective users . Further the language employed for display name text can be selected from a set of specified languages e.g. English Spanish French Italian German Japanese Chinese etc. wherein based at least in part on a user e.g. as identified by the user s authentication credentials or selection of a desired language by a user the ESOC via the interface component can present and or translate the display name text in to a desired language so that the user is able to understand to what aspect of the system the item relates. In another aspect an item e.g. screen can be displayed as a thumbnail picture of the item which can facilitate easy identification of the aspect of the system represented by the item.

In accordance with an example embodiment the menu can include a Room B control that can be a control for a Room B folder that can contain screens and or folders wherein the Room B control can be selected e.g. by mouse click screen touch etc. to access a desired screen or folder in the Room B folder. The menu also can include for example a Room C control that can be a control for a Room C folder that can contain screens and or folders wherein the Room C control can be selected to access a desired screen or folder in the Room C folder.

As desired the menu also can include Screen A control Screen B control Screen C control and Screen D control wherein the respective screen controls can be selected to access Screen A Screen B Screen C and Screen D respectively. As more fully disclosed herein a name such as Screen A can be the display name for a particular item wherein the display name can be the same as or different from the name of the particular item in the application or project. In another aspect the menu can comprise a navigation control that can be employed to enable a user to navigate or transition from a currently displayed screen of a current tier to another tier another screen or a folder in response to selection of the navigation control on the interface component . For example if a screen in a lower tier is currently displayed on the interface component and the navigation control is manipulated or selected the ESOC can navigate away from the currently displayed screen to display items e.g. folder s screen s control s in the next highest tier above the tier associated with the screen being left. The user can then navigate to another desired item by selecting one of the controls associated with the desired item or perform another desired action depending in part on the items available in that next highest tier.

In another aspect additionally or alternatively the navigation control or another specified control such as a search control not shown can be employed to facilitate searching for a desired screen folder or other item. For instance in response to selection or manipulation of the navigation control or other specified control a search field can be presented on the display of the interface component and the user can enter information e.g. search word or phrase screen name folder name item name type of screen etc. into the search field via the interface component . In an aspect the control can include an automatic fill automatic complete or automatic presentation function wherein the search field can automatically fill complete or present one or more search results e.g. screen folder link to screen link to folder etc. in response to partial or complete search information entered into the search field and or other search parameters e.g. type of item date of item etc. entered or selected in other search fields . Selection of a search result via the interface component can result in the display of the item e.g. screen folder associated with the search result on the display screen of the interface component . As desired this search function of the navigation control or other control can be made available to the designer who typically can have a significant number of items to work with when designing an application structure and or other users such as operators or supervisors for example. In another aspect as desired the search for items can be limited and or the search results can be filtered based at least in part on the access rights of the user such that only those items for which the user is granted access are searched and or the search results can be filtered to include only those items for which the user is granted access and which are responsive to the search.

In still another aspect the menu can comprise a home control that can be utilized to enable the user to transition from a currently displayed screen to the home screen in response to a single manipulation of the home control on the interface component . In yet another aspect the menu can include a favorites control that can be used to access a menu or list of favorite screens which can be presented to the user via the interface component wherein selection of a favorite screen in the favorite screen menu or list can be received from the user via the interface component and the ESOC can access the selected favorite screen which can be displayed on the display of the interface component .

In accordance with an embodiment as desired while not shown in the menu as illustrated in the menu can have a portion dedicated to displaying an item e.g. an icon representing the item identified as a potential next item that the user may desire to access next. For instance while a screen is displayed by the interface component the ESOC and or an intelligent component not shown can analyze current and historical information relating to the user or application and based at least in part on the analysis can determine or infer a next item s e.g. next screen that is most likely desired to be accessed and viewed next and can select the next item s for display in the dedicated portion of the menu . The ESOC and or intelligent component can analyze current and historical information relating to for example the currently displayed item the user e.g. role of the user who the user is time of day current status of the application or control system historical status of the application or control system items for which access is permitted to the user in accordance with the access rights granted to the user and or other information to facilitate determining or inferring a next item s to display in the dedicated portion of the menu . For example a user can be viewing a particular screen on the display to check the status of certain parameters relating to operation of the control system. The ESOC can analyze current information such as identifying the particular screen currently being accessed and or status information e.g. parameter values status flags etc. contained in the particular screen and can analyze historical information relating to the particular screen and or the information to infer or determine what screen is the next screen the user is most likely to access next e.g. historically when viewing the particular screen and when the status information is the same or similar to the current status information the user more frequently accesses this identified next screen next than the frequency with which the user accesses other screens .

In an aspect the menu can contain a trend control that when selected can transport from the currently displayed screen to display a screen that can include trend data e.g. trend data of control system parameter values of interest to the user associated with operation of the control system. In still another aspect the menu can comprise an alarm control that when selected can display an alarm screen that provides details regarding current or past alarms and or can display a screen associated with an alarm wherein an alarm can indicate for example a fault in the control system a control system parameter value is outside of predefined threshold value or set of values associated with desired operations relating to that parameter a security breach in the control system an undesired slowdown or stoppage in the control system etc.

In yet another aspect the menu can include a manual control that when selected can display one or more manuals such as for example an operator manual relating to the control system or application. The menu also can contain a tools control that when selected can present one or more utilities e.g. utilities relating to sound time date screen brightness etc. and associated controls that can be employed to facilitate modifying configuration or parameter settings for the terminal to modify operation of the terminal. Typically the tools control is utilized by a designer during design time although another user such as an operator also can utilize the tools control . In still another aspect the menu also can include other controls such as for example one or more scroll controls that can be employed to scroll through available items on the menu for example when there are more items on the menu than can be displayed given the current size of the menu in the display on the interface component . It is to be appreciated and understood that the menu is but one example of the menus that can be employed by the ESOC and presented by the interface component and in accordance with various embodiments a menu can include more or less same or different items or controls than those described with regard to menu . Also as more fully disclosed herein other types of menus such as a context menu or long press context menu can be employed by the ESOC to facilitate accessing screens and folders selecting screens and folders navigating between different items etc. by a user via the interface component .

As an example a user can be an operator using a terminal to monitor and or control operations relating to at least a portion of a control system. The user can enter authentication credentials into the terminal or other associated component and upon validation of the authentication credentials can be granted certain access rights to access a subset of screens and folders associated with the application wherein the screens and folders can be organized in a desired hierarchical structure as specified by the designer and or modified by the user s in accordance with the user s access rights which can be based at least in part on who the user is role of the user user group to which the user belongs the application and or other criteria. The subset of screens available to the user can include for example screen screen screen and screen .

Upon being authenticated the interface component can present the home screen which can be for example screen to the user via a display on the interface component of the terminal wherein for example the screen can be a main menu relating to the application associated with the portion of the control system monitored and or managed by the user. The screen e.g. main menu can provide the user with certain information such as for example high level status information relating to different functions or processes e.g. blending rapid mix filling labeling machine packaging of the control system portion and or controls that can facilitate controlling functions of the control system portion accessing a certain screen e.g. production dashboard or folder and or accessing other information e.g. diagnostic information .

In an aspect if the user desires to access another screen such as a dashboard screen e.g. screen the user can select e.g. via touch screen keyboard mouse voice etc. the production dashboard control displayed on the interface component to access the dashboard screen or if a control to select the dashboard screen is not available on the screen the user can access a tool bar or menu such as menu for example when displayed in a portion of the interface component or as displayed in a portion of the interface component in response to a user action e.g. hover action click in a region of the display click on a favorites control when the dashboard screen is in the favorites folder or menu etc. . In response to selection of the dashboard screen e.g. selection of a dashboard screen control the dashboard screen e.g. can be accessed and displayed on the display screen of the interface component on the terminal so it can be perceived by the user wherein for example the dashboard screen can include parameter values status indicators or other information that can provide the user with other information e.g. production data order information line speed production by shift etc. relating to various part of the control system.

The user can or may desire to obtain information or monitor operations regarding a specific portion e.g. conveyer belt of the control system. In an aspect in response to a user action e.g. a hover or click action on the display screen the menu e.g. can pop up or overlay on the screen wherein the user can select a desired control to access a screen that can display information relating to the specific portion of the control system. For example if the screen e.g. of the specific portion of the control system is in the favorites folder the user can select or manipulate the favorites control and can select the desired screen in the list of screens in the favorites folder or menu and the screen can be accessed and displayed on the display of the interface component . As another example if the screen is in a folder for a specific room such as Room B the user can use the interface component to select the Room B control and the list of screens and or folders for Room B can be displayed on the display of the interface component and the user can select the screen from the list to access and display the screen of the specific portion of the control system.

If the user desires to drill down even further for example to obtain more detail regarding product on the line such as contained on screen the user can utilize the interface component to navigate to a desired location in the hierarchy of folders and screens to where screen is located and can select the screen to access and display the screen on the display of the interface component . For example the screen e.g. showing a specific portion of the control system can be located in the Room B folder e.g. because that specific portion is located in Room B and the Room B folder can include another folder e.g. product sample folder that can contain one or more items e.g. still another folder screen that can be a level further down in the hierarchy than the screen . Using the interface component the user can select the other folder to show the items such as screen contained in the other folder and the user can select screen which shows information relating to a sample of product in the specific portion of the control system.

In another aspect if the user accidentally selects a wrong control e.g. Room C control to a folder that does not include the desired screen or if the user otherwise desires to navigate away from the current folder the user can select the navigate control in the menu and in response the ESOC can navigate away from the current folder to another level in the hierarchy such as for example the next highest level in the hierarchy or to the previous screen accessed. In still another aspect a status bar tool bar or menu e.g. menu which can be located in a desired region e.g. top portion of the display bottom portion of the display side portion of the display etc. of the display can include a forward navigation control not shown in and a backward navigation control not shown in . The backward navigation control when manipulated or selected can navigate from the currently displayed item e.g. screen to the most previously displayed item and or can provide a list containing a specified number of previously displayed items any of which can be selected by the user to navigate to the selected item. The forward navigation control when manipulated or selected can navigate from a currently displayed item to an item that had previously been displayed but had been navigated from to show the currently displayed item in the display. This can provide a streamlined interface that can allow the user to very quickly navigate back and forth between two items e.g. screens that are in distinctly different parts of the application.

Turning briefly to depicted is a diagram of an example hierarchical item display in accordance with an embodiment. In the hierarchical item display can include a plurality of folders and a plurality of screens organized hierarchically in a desired order for example as structured during design time by the designer and or as modified from the initial structure by a user in accordance with the user s access rights. For instance if desired the hierarchical item display can include a first or highest tier in the hierarchy that can comprise one or more folders such as for example folder F relating to Room B folder relating to Room C and screen S which can be Screen A wherein the screen can exist in the display outside of a folder and or also can be in another folder e.g. favorites folder not shown . Per the example hierarchical item display there can be a second or middle tier that can comprise items such as folders and and screens and wherein folder of the first tier can comprise folder e.g. relating to a particular operational aspect of Room B and screen relating to Room B folder of the first tier can comprise folder e.g. relating to certain operational aspects of Room C and screen relating to an operational aspect of Room C. Further as desired the hierarchical item display can comprise a third or lower e.g. lowest tier which can include items such as screen screen and screen wherein screen can relate to a particular operational aspect associated with Room B and can be contained in folder of the second tier and screens and can relate to respective operational aspects of Room C and can be contained in folder .

It is to be appreciated and understood that the number of tiers in the hierarchy can be virtually any desired number e.g. integer number and the three tiers of the hierarchical item display is but one example. It is to be further appreciated and understood that the arrangement of folders and screens and or other items in the hierarchical item display can be organized in virtually any manner desired in order to enable a user to efficiently e.g. quickly access the folders and screens to desirably monitor and or manage control system operations and the arrangement of folders and screens in the hierarchical item display is but one example.

While the items e.g. folders screens controls can be represented by icons such as generic icons in the hierarchical item display the disclosed subject matter is not so limited. For instance in accordance with an embodiment as desired an icon for a particular screen can be desirably displayed as a thumbnail representation of the screen e.g. a smaller scaled depiction of the screen with which the icon is associated. Also it is to be appreciated and understood that the hierarchical arrangement of the hierarchical item display is but one example of a hierarchical display of items and other types of hierarchical displays are considered to be encompassed by the disclosed subject matter.

The disclosed subject matter by employing the multi tier hierarchical screen folder structure having the navigation functionality multi tier arrangement of screens folders and other items home screen control favorites control and menu and other functional aspects all as disclosed herein can provide advantages over conventional operator interface navigation structures. The multi tier hierarchical screen folder structure of the disclosed subject matter is more efficient than a typical operator interface navigation structure that is defined as a hierarchy wherein the user may navigate from one screen to another via a respective set of buttons that are defined on each screen as in such an operator interface navigation structure the operator is required to create a mental picture of the screen to screen navigation so the operator can remember how to get to the location he or she desires. This can be difficult to learn and remember and also limits where the operator can go because the operator typically has to navigate all the way back to the top of the hierarchy so that the operator can then drill down in a different direction s to try to locate the desired screen. The aspects of the disclosed subject matter can improve management and operation of the control system reduce the amount of time needed to navigate between items e.g. screens reduce the amount of information regarding the location of items e.g. screens folders controls etc. that a user is required to remember in order to effectively use an application and desirably secure the terminal application and control system over conventional systems and methods.

In one aspect the system can comprise a terminal that can include the ESOC and interface component . The terminal can be associated with e.g. communicatively connected to the control system to facilitate monitoring and controlling the operations of the control system . The terminal can be used during design time to facilitate organizing screens and folders to generate a multi tier screen folder structure for an application associated with the control system and or during run time to use the multi tier screen folder structure to facilitate monitoring and controlling operations of the control system . It is to be appreciated and understood that in accordance with other embodiments a different terminal not shown or device not shown can be employed during design time to facilitate organizing screens and folders to generate a multi tier screen folder structure for an application associated with the control system and information e.g. code or other data can be stored on a computer readable medium and such information can be input to the terminal to facilitate using the terminal during run time to monitor and control operations of the control system .

In an aspect the interface component can include and or provide one or more displays or monitors such as a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a Liquid Crystal Display LCD monitor a plasma monitor a light emitting diode LED monitor an electrochromic monitor or the like to facilitate displaying information and or items e.g. screens folders controls icons etc. to a user. The interface component also can employ an application control system interface component that can include various adapters connectors controls channels ports communication paths etc. to facilitate connecting the terminal to other components devices or systems such as control system and communication of information between the terminal and other components devices or systems such as control system . In an aspect the terminal also can be functionally coupled e.g. communicatively coupled with a server not shown that is part of a platform factory plant oil rig etc. that includes the control system . In another aspect an access network s can be geographically distributed and can include one or more of a wireline network or a wireless network that operate in accordance with one or more protocols for example packet based protocols such as internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP Ethernet Ethernet TCP IP Control and Information Protocol CIP also referred to as Ethernet IP X.25 Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM protocol frame based protocols such as frame relay and circuit switched protocols . In still another aspect if desired utilizing the access network s one or more remote access techniques can be employed to run e.g. operating managing utilizing or at least facilitate running the application. When the one or more remote access techniques are used to run the application the interface component can or may exist on the terminal but additionally or alternatively a remote thin client e.g. an application control type device or another terminal can be connected to the terminal via for example a wireline or wireless communication network e.g. an IP based network e.g. the Internet an intranet as more fully disclosed herein wherein the remote thin client or other terminal can be providing visualization user feedback or other desired functionality for using e.g. enabling a user to use remotely a menu or other item e.g. screen provided by the ESOC and or presented by the interface component .

In another aspect the interface component can provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs command line interfaces and the like. For example a GUI e.g. touch screen GUI can be rendered that provides a user with a region or means to load import read etc. data and can include a region to present the results of such. These regions can comprise known text and or graphic regions comprising dialogue boxes static controls drop down menus list boxes pop up menus as edit controls combo boxes radio buttons check boxes push buttons and graphic boxes. In addition utilities to facilitate the presentation such as vertical and or horizontal scroll bars for navigation and toolbar buttons to determine whether a region will be viewable can be employed. In still another aspect the interface component can receive and or respond to a swipe gesture s e.g. via a touch screen GUI wherein a desired action e.g. unlocking of the terminal or associated display scrolling through a menu moving from one area of a displayed item such as a screen to another area of that item adjusting the size of a displayed item etc. . For instance a displayed menu or screen can be sized such that it is larger than the display screen of the interface component . The interface component can receive a particular swipe gesture via the touch screen GUI and in response the menu can be scrolled to display different menu items including items that were previously outside of the display area or a different portion of the screen can be displayed such as a region of the screen that was previously not viewable on the display prior to the swipe gesture. Alternatively or additionally a mouse can be used to click and drag on the screen to move the screen in the display so that the desired portion of the screen is displayed on the display or one or more buttons e.g. ctrl button an arrowed or directional button on a keyboard can be manipulated to move the screen in the display so that the desired portion of the screen is displayed on the display. In an aspect the user can interact with one or more of the components coupled to and or incorporated into a processor e.g. host processor of the processor component .

The user can also interact with the regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse a roller ball a keypad a track pad a keyboard a pen and or voice activation for example. Typically a mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed subsequent entering the information in order to initiate the search. However it is to be appreciated that the disclosed subject matter is not so limited. For example merely highlighting a check box can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via a text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via providing a text message. The user can than provide suitable information such as alpha numeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a GUI HMI and or API. In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards and or displays e.g. black and white and EGA with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

Further the interface component can include or can be associated with a scanner that can receive data e.g. authentication credentials user data etc. from other components e.g. host processor of system . The scanner can be a type whereby a device e.g. smart card containing the data can be swiped through the scanner which can read data associated with the device and or the scanner can be a wireless scanner e.g. RFID type scanner that can receive or read data associated with a device that contains the data when the device is within a predefined area near the wireless scanner such that the wireless scanner is able to communicate with the device to read or receive the data from the device.

In an aspect the processor component can operate in conjunction with the other components e.g. ESOC interface component etc. of the terminal to facilitate performing the various functions of the terminal . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to creating a multi tier design structure of screens and folders organizing screens and folders in relation to each other in the structure controlling access to the screens and folders maintaining security of the terminal application control system and data communications monitoring and or controlling the control system using the application and associated multi tier design structure controlling access rights controlling communication of data between the terminal and other components e.g. control system etc. etc. information relating to other operations of the system and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the terminal as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the terminal and other components e.g. control system etc. associated with the terminal .

The terminal also can contain a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data code control data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to creating a multi tier design structure of screens and folders organizing screens and folders in relation to each other in the structure controlling access to the screens and folders maintaining security of the terminal application control system and data communications monitoring and or controlling the control system using the application and associated multi tier design structure controlling access rights controlling communication of data between the terminal and other components e.g. control system etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the terminal . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the components of the terminal e.g. ESOC interface component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the terminal .

In still another aspect the control system can include a control platform that can be employed to facilitate monitoring and controlling operations in the control system . The control platform can comprise a processor component that can operate in conjunction with the other components e.g. equipment application control system interface component etc. of the control system to facilitate performing the various functions of the control system . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process control code to facilitate performance of operations of the control system and data such as information relating to operating conditions or parameters of the control system alarm information information relating to communication of data between the control system and the terminal or other components etc. information relating to other operations of the control system and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the control system as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the control system and other components e.g. terminal etc. associated with the control system .

In accordance with various embodiments a controller in the control platform can be embodied in a programmable automation controller PAC which can be a dedicated programmable logic controller PLC a PC based controller or the like. The terminal can communicate with the controller and or other devices such as an input output I O module drives motion controllers process instruments sensors etc. in or associated with the control platform . Control code and control data structures in the control platform can represent control logic that can administer equipment and related processes functionally coupled to the control platform . In an aspect control platform is an industrial automation control environment and the control logic is automation control logic. To facilitate operation of the control system control logic can be developed during design time wherein the control logic can be implemented e.g. executed at run time. During design time e.g. in the design environment in an aspect instruction s data type s and metadata tag s that comprise control code can be produced and retained as part of configuration or composition of a control project or application for use in operations for the control system e.g. during run time .

In yet another aspect the equipment of the control system can comprise various components or devices e.g. conveyer belt material distributor mixer measurement component extraction component etc. that can perform associated process es e.g. industrial process es manufacturing process es measurement process es in a laboratory infrastructure development process es such as oil and gas prospecting and extraction etc. . The equipment generally can be specific to a production process and related market space s e.g. beverages edible goods textile goods oil and gas etc. and can include one or more sets of tools a group of machines numerous systems and related sub systems real estate and associated infrastructure and so forth.

In still another aspect the control platform also can include an application control system interface component that can include various adapters connectors controls channels ports communication paths etc. to facilitate connecting the control system to other components systems or devices such as the terminal and equipment and communication of information e.g. control data or code to facilitate controlling operation of the control system information relating to operation of the control system etc. between the control system and other components systems or devices such as the terminal and equipment .

The control system also can contain a data store that can store data structures e.g. control code or data data relating to operations of the control system metadata etc. code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to operating conditions or parameters of the control system alarm information information relating to communication of data between the control system and the terminal or other components etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the control system . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the components of the control system e.g. equipment application control system interface component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the control system .

The ESOC can be associated with an intelligent component that can utilize artificial intelligence AI techniques or methods to infer e.g. reason and draw a conclusion based at least in part on a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios an automated response to perform in response to an inference s at least a portion of a multi tier organization of screens and folders for an application associated with a control system whether a screen is to be identified as a favorite screen which screen of a plurality of screens is most suitable to be a home screen in relation to a user a role or a user group a desired filtering of screens and folders to generate a subset of screens and folders to be presented in relation to a subset of access rights a next item e.g. screen that a user is expected to access next etc. Artificial intelligence techniques typically can apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm and reinforced learning to historic and or current data associated with the systems and methods disclosed herein to facilitate rendering an inference s related to the systems and methods disclosed herein.

In particular the intelligent component can employ one of numerous techniques or methods for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation can also be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies can also be employed. Moreover game theoretic models e.g. game trees game matrices pure and mixed strategies utility algorithms Nash equilibria evolutionary game theory etc. and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. can be exploited in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein. The foregoing techniques or methods can be applied to analysis of the historic and or current data associated with systems and methods disclosed herein to facilitate making inferences or determinations related to systems and methods disclosed herein.

In still another aspect the ESOC can comprise a screen generator component that can be employed to generate a screen that can be representative of a portion of a control system to facilitate monitoring and controlling operations of that portion of the control system using e.g. interfacing or interacting with that screen. Respective screens of respective portions or aspects of the control system can be generated such that all or a desired portion of the control system can be monitored and controlled using the screens in accordance with the multi tier design structure as generated during design time. In yet another aspect the ESOC can include a folder generator component that can be employed to generate one or more folders wherein one or more screens folders or other items can be stored or contained in a folder.

In an aspect the ESOC can comprise a menu component that can be utilized to generate one or more menus including for example a context menu and or a long press context menu when can be provided or presented to a user e.g. an operator supervisor during run time to facilitate navigating between various items selecting a screen as a home screen or a favorite screen and or performing other desired functions during run time. For a given menu the menu component can include icons and associated controls that can be representative of and or can facilitate access of respective screens folders or other items as presented in the multi tier design structure. In still another aspect the ESOC can contain a selector component that can be utilized to select items for example in response to user activity e.g. mouse click screen touch key stroke control manipulation voice command etc. to access or open the selected item or perform an operation associated with the selected item.

The ESOC also can include an organization management component that can be utilized to facilitate arranging and presenting screens folders and or other items in a multi tier design structure e.g. as specified by the designer . The organization management component can provide functions and controls that can facilitate creating a multi tier design structure and arranging items e.g. screens folders in relation to each other in the multi tier design structure in accordance with the predefined organization criteria.

In yet another aspect the ESOC can comprise a security component that can be employed to secure access to a terminal an application and associated control system and or screens and folders in accordance with access rights of a user. The security component also can facilitate creating secure communication channels for secure communication of data and or encrypting data for communication and decrypting received data in accordance with desired secure communication protocols. e.g. hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS secure sockets layer SSL protocol data encryption standard DES type algorithms advanced encryption standard AES type algorithms symmetric key algorithms etc. .

The security component can include an authenticator component that can be employed to authenticate or verify users attempting to access the terminal and or application associated with the control system. The authenticator component can receive authentication credentials from a user via the interface component and can compare the received authentication credentials to stored valid authentication credentials to determine whether the received authentication credentials are valid and if so to facilitate identifying a subset of access rights that can be granted to an authenticated user. If the received authentication credentials match any of the stored valid authentication credentials the received authentication credentials can be identified as valid and the user can be deemed authenticated. If the received authentication credentials do not match any of the stored valid authentication credentials the authenticator component can determine that the received authentication credentials are not valid and the security component can deny the user access to the terminal and or application. In such instance the security component can facilitate prompting the user to attempt to provide valid authentication credentials up to a predefined maximum number of access attempts wherein if the maximum number of attempts is reached without valid authentication credentials being presented further attempts to access the terminal or application can be denied for at least a predefined amount of time and or a notification of the authentication failure can be communicated to a desired entity e.g. plant manager supervisor security person etc. .

In an aspect when the received authentication credentials are determined to be valid the security component can identify a subset of access rights that can be granted to the user to access the terminal and or application including a subset of screens and folders based at least in part on a mapping of the received valid authentication credentials to access rights which can be stored in the data store . The user can access the subset screens and folders of the multi tier design structure but can be restricted from accessing other screens and folders that are not in the subset in accordance with the access rights granted to the user.

In still another aspect the ESOC can contain a filter component that can be used to filter the set of screens and folders of the multi tier design structure to identify or generate the subset of screens and folders that can be made available to the authenticated user. The access rights and associated subset of screens and folders can be based at least in part on the user role e.g. operator supervisor etc. of the user in relation to the control system user group to which the user belongs etc. In yet another aspect the ESOC can include a map component that can include desired mappings relating to an application and associated control system. The mappings can comprise for example a mapping of authentication credentials to a subset of access rights map a subset of access rights to a user role or user group map an icon or control to an item e.g. screen folder etc. portion of a screen a function or an aspect associated with the control system etc.

In an aspect the ESOC can comprise a processor component that can operate in conjunction with the other components e.g. design time controller component run time controller component screen generator component etc. of the ESOC to facilitate performing the various functions of the ESOC . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to creating a multi tier design structure of screens and folders organizing screens and folders in relation to each other in the structure controlling access to the screens and folders maintaining security of the terminal application control system and data communications monitoring and or controlling the control system using the application and associated multi tier design structure controlling access rights controlling communication of data between the ESOC and other components e.g. interface component control system etc. etc. information relating to other operations of the ESOC and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the ESOC as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the ESOC and other components e.g. interface component control system etc. associated with the ESOC .

The ESOC also can contain a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data code control data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to creating a multi tier design structure of screens and folders organizing screens and folders in relation to each other in the structure controlling access to the screens and folders maintaining security of the terminal application control system and data communications monitoring and or controlling the control system using the application and associated multi tier design structure controlling access rights controlling communication of data between the ESOC and other components e.g. interface component control system etc. etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the ESOC . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the components of the ESOC e.g. design time controller component run time controller component screen generator component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the ESOC .

In view of the example systems described above example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation various methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the subject disclosure is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. It is noted that not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with the subject specification. In addition for example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s represent several of the example methods disclosed herein in accordance with the described subject matter particularly in instances when disparate entities or functional elements enact disparate portions of one or more of the several methods. Furthermore two or more of the disclosed example methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described in the subject disclosure.

At the one or more screens and one or more folders as organized can be presented. For instance the multi tier hierarchical arrangement of screens and folders e.g. multi level organized application structure or multi tier design structure as organized for example by a designer can be presented to a user via a display of an interface component of a terminal.

In another aspect when organizing the screens and folders the designer can select or assign a screen as a home screen e.g. global home screen and or a specific home screen for a role user or group etc. . The designer also can select or assign a set of favorite screens for a user group role etc.

At the screens and folders as organized can be presented. For example when a user is accessing a terminal associated with the control system the screens and folders as previously organized can be presented to the user via a display of the interface component of the terminal.

At input relating to navigation can be received. For instance input to the interface component can indicate that the user is manipulating the navigation control e.g. mouse click on the navigation control touching the navigation control on the touch screen keyboard stroke s to select the navigation control etc. . At a navigation action can be performed in response to the received input relating to navigation. For instance in response to manipulating the navigation button the ESOC can navigate away from the currently displayed screen to another screen and or a different tier in the multi tier structure. For example the ESOC can navigate from the current screen to the next highest tier above the tier in which the currently displayed screen resides wherein the next highest tier can comprise the folder in which the currently displayed screen resides one or more other folders and or one or more other screens.

At one or more filters can be identified based at least in part on the subset of access rights. In an aspect the ESOC can identify one or more filters to facilitate filtering the set of folders and screens to generate a subset of folders and screens that are allowed to be accessed by the user in accordance with the access rights granted. At the one or more filters can be applied to the set of folders and screens to generate the subset of screens and folders. At the subset of folders and screens can be presented. For example the subset of folders and screens as organized in accordance with predefined organization criteria can be presented to the user via a display of the interface component of a terminal.

At one or more favorite screen identification rules can be applied to information relating to the screen related activity. In an aspect the ESOC can apply a subset of favorite screen identification rules to the information relating to the screen related activity. The subset of favorite screen identification rules can specify for example that a predefined number of most recently accessed screens can be added to or maintained on the list of favorite screens or the most frequently accessed screens over a predefined period of time e.g. 1 hour . . . 1 day . . . 1 week . . . 1 work shift 2 work shifts 3 work shifts . . . etc. can be added to or maintained on the list of favorite screens or frequency e.g. expected frequency of observed frequency or a screen that has been accessed for a specified length of time or for a longer length of time relative to other screens over a given time period can be added to or maintained on the list of favorite screens.

At a screen can be identified as a favorite screen based at least in part on the one or more favorite screen identification rules. At the identified screen can be added to the list of favorite screens. In adding the screen as a favorite screen in the list of favorite screens depending in part on the maximum number of favorite screens allowed on the list or other factors the screen can be added to the list without removing another screen from the list or another screen can be removed from the list when the newly identified favorite screen is added to the list.

In an embodiment a context menu such as a long press context menu can be employed to facilitate enabling a screen being displayed to be saved as a favorite screen that can be included in the list of favorite screens. For instance employing the ESOC and interface component the user can perform an action in relation to the screen by clicking e.g. using a mouse touching e.g. on a touch screen display or pressing a specified button e.g. on a keyboard for a specified period of time e.g. 1 second 2 seconds 3 seconds . . . and in response to such action the ESOC can save the screen as a favorite screen in the list of favorite screens.

In accordance with various embodiments a home screen can be selected by a user such as a designer at design time as more fully disclosed herein. Additionally or alternatively a context menu such as a long press context menu can be employed to facilitate enabling a screen being displayed to be selected as a home screen. For instance employing the ESOC and interface component the user can perform an action in relation to the screen by clicking e.g. using a mouse touching e.g. on a touch screen display or pressing a specified button e.g. on a keyboard for a specified period of time e.g. 1 second 2 seconds 3 seconds . . . and in response to such action the ESOC can save the screen as a home screen.

One or more methods disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such method s to computers or chipsets with processing capability ies for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors that enact method s described herein can be employed to execute computer executable code instructions retained in a memory or any computer readable or machine readable medium to implement method s described herein the code instructions when executed by the one or more processor implement or carry out the various acts in the method s described herein. The computer executable code instructions provide a computer executable or machine executable framework to enact or implement the method s described herein.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects thereof and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the description above is in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosed subject matter also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the disclosed subject matter also can be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital video disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

A computer and computing devices in general typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Interface enables functional coupling of computer to a removable memory such as a USB memory device or a SD memory card. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the disclosed subject matter.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the disclosed subject matter.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is to be appreciated that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adaptor may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an example computing environment in accordance with another aspect. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the disclosed subject matter for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the invention for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

In the subject specification and annexed drawings terms such as repository store data store data storage and substantially any term s that convey other information storage component s relevant to operation and functionality of a functional element or component described herein refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. The memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. In addition the memory components described herein can be statically affixed screwed bolted soldered etc. or removably affixed. Further the memory components can include computer readable or machine readable storage media.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of further illustration and not limitation RAM can be available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device e.g. a PAC discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps or acts of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An example storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methods but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

