---

title: Collapsible breadcrumbs for maximizing space in a user interface
abstract: Apparatus and method for maximizing space in a user interface that is displayed to a user. A breadcrumb view area having a breadcrumb view pathway with active links is concealed from view and presented based on input provided in the user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08488172&OS=08488172&RS=08488172
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08488172
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110201
---
The exemplary embodiment relates to fields of image processing. It finds particular application in connection with the provision of a user interface for breadcrumbs. More particularly this disclosure relates to a system and method for displaying a breadcrumb path.

A breadcrumb pathway can be presented to a user in order to effectively present information to an audience. Breadcrumbs are a useful secondary navigation system for creating HyperText Markup Language HTML web pages or other type web pages. These pieces of linked text provide a method for visitors to use when journeying through a website and keeping track of where they are. These needs are often provided by services within economies that have global spans and diverse demographics which desire efficient means for receiving workflow requests and targeting specific markets.

In one example print industries have moved towards technical standards such as Job Definition Format JDF to facilitate cross vendor workflow implementations. JDF for example is an XML format about job tickets message descriptions and message interchanges. The initial focus was on sheet fed offsets and digital print workflow but has been expanded to web roll fed systems newspaper workflows packaging and label workflows. JDF is an extensible format which defines both JDF files and a job messaging format based on XML over HTTP.

As is typical of workflow systems the JDF message contains information that enables each node to determine what files it needs as input and where they are found and what processes it should perform. It then modifies the JDF job ticket to describe what it has done and examines the JDF ticket to determine where the message and accompanying files should be sent next. A goal of workflow systems such as with the JDF format is to encompass the whole life cycle of a print and cross media job including device automation management data collection and job floor mechanical production process including even such things as bindery assembly of finished products on pallets. To realize such a globalization across media provider industries more vendors are adopting such standards. As such the standards themselves need to be easily manageable for acceptance.

One area of development is in the user interface displaying breadcrumb pathways to a user. For example when a workflow is produced presented to a client generating the workflow request and sent for production breadcrumb pathways can be a burden when too much user work space is taken up by long breadcrumb pathways. A need is present therefore to present breadcrumb pathways in an efficient manner so as to facilitate the workflow request efficiently and effectively in a manner that is intuitive and not cumbersome.

A user interface system and methods are disclosed herein to provide an indicator signifying a breadcrumb view area. The breadcrumb view area includes a breadcrumb pathway with active links for enabling and showing navigation through various folder files sub folders containers data items etc.

In one embodiment as a user provides input for example a click on the indicator or icon a breadcrumb view area is collapsed with all the bread crumbs. The entire area is hidden from view and when selected again the area opens up or become visibly presented.

In another embodiment a method is disclosed for a user interface of a computer system to enable a breadcrumb pathway in a user display. One or more inputs are received at the user interface system to hide a breadcrumb view area having a breadcrumb pathway in the user display. An indicator control is displayed that signifies a breadcrumb view area that is hidden from view of a user within the user display by the processor. Upon receiving one or more second inputs at the user display the breadcrumb view area is presented in the user display and a breadcrumb pathway therein. The breadcrumb pathway includes one or more active links in a hierarchical structure to content navigated from by the user.

In another embodiment a method for a user interface system in an imaging device system having toner for generating images on a medium to enable a breadcrumb pathway in a user display is executed via a processor with a memory storing executable instructions for the method. An indicator is displayed that signifies a breadcrumb view area is hidden from view of a user within the user display by the processor in the imaging device system. Upon receiving a first input at the user display the breadcrumb view area is presented in the user display and a breadcrumb pathway therein.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

More efficient methods and or systems for representing client file structures in hierarchical lists such as with breadcrumbs would provide better utilization of work space and improved controls in user interfaces. For example a schema can be created where publishing locations are expressed richly associated with metadata to include a structure e.g. a hierarchical structure of the published location and logic for how to handle the location with its sub containers or files therein.

Content that may be displayed or rendered in the user interface is sent over the network . The network may be in the form of an internet connection some other connection or may be any device for storing and transferring data for supplying content in digital format. The data could be a job request by a client or customer with the content and specifications for the job that may be converted to JDF or some other format language e.g. XML or the like which defines a job ticket for creation of a job request. The request may be for printed documents packaging items kitting or the like to be proofed and sent to production and or for maintenance request tickets for example. The present disclosure is applicable to any context in which breadcrumb pathways are displayed including virtual three dimensional renderings and is not limited to packaging and workflow request environments but also includes any environment for supporting the user interface .

A central processor having a memory for example receives a job request and processes it through one or more workstations for rendering content thereon. The content may provide different assets necessary for implementing a job or task. Virtual renderings of the job can be presented in three dimensional virtual scenes via a graphics processing unit GPU for example or a visual processing unit that specializes in offloading and accelerating three dimensional and or two dimensional graphics rendering from a microprocessor to the workstation . In one example the processor is a networked Document Product Visualization DPV processor that operates with software to store JDF data in the memory. The processor is coupled to a breadcrumb view area generator that is configured to generate and provide a breadcrumb view area having a breadcrumb pathway corresponding to various virtual locations e.g. files folders sub folders data items etc. .

The workstation or work order generator that provides a display that renders a virtual rendering of the document package for the user or other request in which the user afterwards provides an approval input or confirmation that the document or package is to the user s satisfaction. The job request or ticket is then updated in memory for example and sent down the production chain to an imaging device such as a production printer. The imaging device includes a transfer station that transfers toner to a print medium for a final work product e.g. a maintenance request or other document request to be produced and delivered to a client. The imaging device includes a user interface system with navigation controls therein to open files or folders and drill into respective files or sub folders therein by navigating through a pathway which can be regenerated as a breadcrumb pathway. The user interface system of the imaging device as well as the user interface is adaptable for displaying a breadcrumb view area having at least one breadcrumb pathway including active links to navigational screens that have been drilled through or navigated from with content such as different data items at respective links. In one example a user navigates through the system from different folders files sub folders and or data items in order to carry out a work order request job ticket or the like. Within the user interface a breadcrumb pathway associated with this navigation is displayed which is further illustrated and explained below in conjunction with

Referring now to illustrated is an exemplary embodiment of a user interface having a breadcrumb view area which can for example be rendered in the workstation in a user interface or with the user interface or of . Any phase of production or in any processing device such as processor can be used to implement the breadcrumb view area . The user interface includes an indicator that signifies that the breadcrumb view area is located within the user interface . The indicator has a double arrow symbol pointing to the breadcrumb view area which is viewable to a user of the interface. The indicator may include any symbol to signify the presence of the breadcrumb view area and is not limited to any one symbol in either a three dimensional virtual interface two dimensional interface or the like. For example the indicator can include any operator or symbol such as a picture of an actual bread crumb or bread crust to indicate to the user the presence of the breadcrumb view area .

The breadcrumb view area includes a breadcrumb pathway illustrating a path that is navigated through to the presently displayed folder file container sub files data items or the like. For example starting at a home page of a web site or other folder a user has navigated to a file that is titled Jobs. Following the Jobs folder location is a Job JobName1 location which is followed by the location titled Configure Operation Administration. Each location may be a compartment file folder etc. in which a user has navigated from and is displayed as the breadcrumb pathway in the breadcrumb view area which has active links corresponding to the locations for navigating to from the current location Configure Operation Administration. Arrows between each location indicate the sequence of navigation but any separator symbol may or may not be used.

The currently displayed location in the user interface has content sections and therein and is titled Configure Operation Administration. Each content section has content or data therein for display within the user interface and is not limited to the example illustrated in but may include any number or type of data items or other folders. For example content section provides for a summary of a job ticket with a number of cost items for the specific job request. Information pertaining to the file or data item and when it was last edited is illustrated in content section . The content section provides time stamp information about validated content for further example.

Referring to illustrated is another example of the user interface where the breadcrumb view area discussed above is hidden from view of the user. The indicator signifies the presence of the breadcrumb view area event though the breadcrumb view area with the breadcrumb pathway is hidden from view of the user. While the content sections and still remain in view additional space is afforded for sections with other content to be displayed such as a content section having Other information within it. The content section and or may still have the same information or may have different information if the user has navigated deeper for example to a different location e.g. a different folder . The user interface is not limited to any number of content sections or content and may have one or more sections having various types content including other folders links sub folders images text or the like.

The indicator provides an upside down arrow in contrast to the indicator of . The indicator may use any symbol operator or information to help signify in addition to the indicator s presence a state and or presence of the breadcrumb view area and or the breadcrumb pathway.

According to one embodiment the indicator operates as a control e.g. an indicator control that receives input thereat for displaying the breadcrumb view area . For example upon receiving input from the user such as a click keyboard stroke or touch thereat the breadcrumb view area is displayed. Upon receiving a second input the breadcrumb view area may be hidden from view as in . The first and second inputs may also be receiving on the user display presenting the user interface . The first and second inputs may also be received on other sections of the user interface being displayed where the breadcrumb view area is located such as alongside the indicator or proximate thereto for example.

In other embodiments the inputs for hiding and or concealing the breadcrumb view area is based on inputs received that are independent of the user such as one or more criteria. For example when the breadcrumb pathway in the breadcrumb view area becomes too long as a result of title number of active links have been navigated to or by another criteria the breadcrumb view area and breadcrumb pathway may then be hidden from view to allocate more space and not interfere with any other content being displayed. For example the breadcrumb pathway may be hidden from view as in when the breadcrumb pathway becomes too long to fit within a single line of text having a set length and navigation to location with long titles or too many navigational locations may cause the pathway to exceed a length that may be set as the length for a single line of text or for other set lengths according to a user s preference. In another example text wrapping or a text wrapping condition could be the input for hiding the breadcrumb view area. For example when the breadcrumb pathway wraps or extends down to a next line of text the breadcrumb view area becomes hidden from view. In addition once the pathway shortens to length under the set length the breadcrumb view is displayed. In other words the input for displaying the breadcrumb view area can be the length of the breadcrumb pathway at any given time. For example the active links of the breadcrumb pathway may correspond to opened pop up windows and as the pop up windows are closed the breadcrumb pathway shortens. By way of another example navigating backwards such as with a back up control or button could cause the breadcrumb pathway to shorten and fall under the set length for being hidden and thus provide the input to bring the breadcrumb view area into view.

An example methodology for minimizing ghosting in an image forming device is illustrated in . While the method is illustrated and described below as a series of acts or events it will be appreciated that the illustrated ordering of such acts or events are not to be interpreted in a limiting sense. For example some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts or events apart from those illustrated and or described herein. In addition not all illustrated acts may be required to implement one or more aspects or embodiments of the description herein. Further one or more of the acts depicted herein may be carried out in one or more separate acts and or phases.

The method initiates at and displays an indicator that signifies a breadcrumb view area in display having a user interface . The breadcrumb view area can be displayed via different user interface controls such as by fading tabbing pop up display drop down menu or by other interactive controls within the user interface. As a user navigates to other links the breadcrumb pathway provided within the user interface expands. Depending upon the length of the title of each link and the number of locations the user navigates to the hierarchical structure of the breadcrumb pathway lengthens. At a question is asked whether the user interface system has received input to conceal the breadcrumb view area . When input is not received NO at the process flow of method is directed to continue displaying the indicator is signifying the breadcrumb area at without further action. When input is received to conceal the breadcrumb area YES at the process flow of method is directed to where the breadcrumb area is concealed from view of the user.

At the question is asked whether a view input is received. Where no input is received NO at the process flows to where the indicator is displayed. When input that causes the breadcrumb area to come into view is received the process flows to where the breadcrumb view area is presented.

In certain embodiments the breadcrumb pathway may or may not exceed a length of the user display approximate to a set length for a line of text at any given time. Not exceeding a certain length for example can provide a first input or a view input that is at the indicator on the display to display the breadcrumb view area. For example where the breadcrumb pathway is less than a line length no text wrapping occurs or is sensed and or a pathway is deleted to fit onto one line can each provide input in the user interface to display the breadcrumb view area . A second different input or a conceal input is received to conceal the breadcrumb pathway. For example the second input includes the breadcrumb pathway exceeding a length of the user display approximate to a set length for at least one line of text or some other predetermined length that may or may not be controlled by a user. Alternatively another criteria being met may be used as a hide input. For example a user request in the form of clicking at a location on the indicator or other keyboard stroke or touch screen input thereat that is performed by a user or user interface control. In one embodiment the hide input may be provided proximate to the indicator or where the breadcrumb view area would be located in the user s view at different location of the display or user interface other than the indicator control itself.

The indicator signifying the breadcrumb view area is rendered via the user interface concurrently with content displayed in a current folder or file that the user has opened or navigated to. The content and indicator for example are displayed on the same screen display or at the same time. An advantage of the methods described herein is that space is saved and utilized efficiently for a user friendly interface. The user interfaces described herein can be for presenting a finalized workflow request to the user where upon retrieving a final approval input after visual inspection by the user a work order request output is generated in order to implement the transfer station to transfer toner to paper or other medium. Various implementations are envisioned as one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

The exemplary method may be implemented on one or more general purpose computers special purpose computer s a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit elements an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor a hardwired electronic or logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit a programmable logic device such as a PLD PLA FPGA or PAL or the like. In general any device capable of implementing a finite state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the flowchart shown herein.

It will be appreciated that variants of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

