---

title: Inhibitors of PI3 kinase
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09073927&OS=09073927&RS=09073927
owner: FUNDACION CENTRO NACIONAL DE INVESTIGACIONES ONCOLOGICAS CARLOS III
number: 09073927
owner_city: Madrid
owner_country: ES
publication_date: 20110124
---
This application is a U.S. national phase of International Application No. PCT GB2011 000086 filed Jan. 24 2011 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to novel pharmaceutically useful compounds which compounds are useful as inhibitors of protein or lipid kinases such as inhibitors of the phosphoinositide 3 OH kinase PI3 kinase family particularly the PI3K class I sub type. The compounds may also be useful as inhibitors of the mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR . The compounds are of potential utility in the treatment of diseases such as cancer. The invention also relates to the use of such compounds as medicaments to the use of such compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions to pharmaceutical compositions containing them and to synthetic routes for their production.

The malfunctioning of protein kinases PKs is the hallmark of numerous diseases. A large share of the oncogenes and proto oncogenes involved in human cancers code for PKs. The enhanced activities of PKs are also implicated in many non malignant diseases such as benign prostate hyperplasia familial adenomatosis polyposis neuro fibromatosis psoriasis vascular smooth cell proliferation associated with atherosclerosis pulmonary fibrosis arthritis glomerulonephritis and post surgical stenosis and restenosis. PKs are also implicated in inflammatory conditions and in the multiplication of viruses and parasites. PKs may also play a major role in the pathogenesis and development of neurodegenerative disorders.

Phosphatidylinositol 3 kinases PI3Ks are a family of lipid and serine threonine kinases that catalyze the phosphorylation of the membrane lipid phosphatidylinositol PI on the 3 OH of the inositol ring to produce phosphoinositol 3 phosphate PIP phosphoinositol 3 4 diphosphate PIP and phosphoinositol 3 4 5 triphosphate PIP which act as recruitment sites for various intracellular signalling proteins which in turn form signalling complexes to relay extracellular signals to the cytoplasmic face of the plasma membrane. These 3 phosphoinositide subtypes function as second messengers in intracellular signal transduction pathways see e.g. Trends Biochem. Sci 22 87 267 72 1997 by Vanhaesebroeck et al. Chem. Rev. 101 8 2365 80 2001 by Leslie et al 2001 Annu. Rev. Cell. Dev. Boil. 17 615 75 2001 by Katso et al and Cell. Mol. Life. Sci. 59 5 761 79 2002 by Toker et al .

Multiple PI3K isoforms categorized by their catalytic subunits their regulation by corresponding regulatory subunits expression patterns and signalling specific funtions p110 perform this enzymatic reaction Exp. Cell. Res. 25 1 239 54 1999 by Vanhaesebroeck and Katso et al. 2001 above .

The closely related isoforms p110 and are ubiquitously expressed while and are more specifically expressed in the haematopoietic cell system smooth muscle cells myocytes and endothelial cells see e.g. Trends Biochem. Sci. 22 7 267 72 1997 by Vanhaesebroeck et al . Their expression might also be regulated in an inducible manner depending on the cellular tissue type and stimuli as well as disease context. Inductibility of protein expression includes synthesis of protein as well as protein stabilization that is in part regulated by association with regulatory subunits.

Eight mammalian PI3Ks have been identified so far including four class I PI3Ks. Class Ia includes PI3K PI3K and PI3K . All of the class Ia enzymes are heterodimeric complexes comprising a catalytic subunit p100 p110 or p110 associated with an SH2 domain containing p85 adapter subunit. Class Ia PI3Ks are activated through tyrosine kinase signalling and are involved in cell proliferation and survival. PI3K and PI3K have also been implicated in tumorigenesis in a variety of human cancers. Thus pharmacological inhibitors of PI3K and PI3K are useful for treating various types of cancer.

PI3K the only member of the Class Ib PI3Ks consists of a catalytic subunit p110 which is associated with a p110 regulatory subunit. PI3K is regulated by G protein coupled receptors GPCRs via association with 3 subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins. PI3K is expressed primarily in hematopoietic cells and cardiomyocytes and is involved in inflammation and mast cell function. Thus pharmacological inhibitors of PI3K are useful for treating a variety of inflammatory diseases allergies and cardiovascular diseases.

These observations show that deregulation of phosphoinositol 3 kinase and the upstream and downstream components of this signalling pathway is one of the most common deregulations associated with human cancers and proliferative diseases see e.g. Parsons et al. Nature 436 792 2005 Hennessey et al. Nature Rev. Drug Discovery 4 988 1004 2005 .

The mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR also known as FK506 binding protein 12 rapamycin associated protein 1 FRAP1 is a protein which in humans is encoded by the FRAP1 gene. mTOR is a serine threonine protein kinase that regulates cell growth cell proliferation cell motility cell survival protein synthesis and transcription. The inhibition of mTORs are believed to be useful for treating various diseases conditions such as cancer for example as described in Easton et al. 2006 . mTOR and cancer therapy . Oncogene 25 48 6436 46 .

The listing or discussion of an apparently prior published document in this specification should not necessarily be taken as an acknowledgement that the document is part of the state of the art or is common general knowledge.

US patent application US 2009 0163489 and international patent application WO 2009 085230 both disclose various molecules containing a 6 5 fused bicyclic core which may be useful as inhibitors of PI3 kinase PI3 K . However these documents do not relate to 6 5 bicyclic compounds that are substituted on the 6 membered ring with at least two substituents an aromatic group and a morpholinyl group or compounds that are substituted on the 5 membered ring with an alkyl or heterocycloalkyl moiety linked via a carbon atom .

International patent applications WO 2007 127175 and WO 2006 046040 both disclose various thienopyrimidines and furopyrimidines of potential use as PI3 K inhibitors. However these documents do not disclose or suggest any other 6 5 fused bicyclic compounds.

International patent application WO 2004 092177 discloses various triazolopyrazines for use in modulating the Aadenosine receptor signalling pathways. International patent applications WO 2006 027346 WO 2007 032936 WO 2005 042537 WO 2007 088168 WO 2008 131050 WO 03 000693 WO 2004 005290 and WO 2004 005291 and US patent application US 2006 0084650 and international patent application WO 2006 044687 disclose various bicyclic compounds that may be useful for treating diseases disorders such as cancer pain neurodegenerative disorders and or that may be useful as kinase inhibitors. However these documents do not relate to such bicycles that are directly substituted with both an aromatic group and a morpholinyl group.

International patent applications WO 2008 113469 and WO 2009 007029 disclose various compounds including bicyclic compounds for use in treating diseases such as haematological diseases. However these documents do not relate to bicycles that are substituted with a morpholinyl group.

Journal article Chorvat et al. 1999 42 833 discloses various bicyclic compounds that may possess biological activity. However there is no disclosure of 6 5 fused bicycles in which the 6 membered ring is directly substituted with an aromatic group.

International patent application WO 2005 035532 discloses various triazolopyrazinones that may be useful in the treatment of asthma or another glycogen synthase kinase mediated condition. However this document only discloses 6 5 bicyclic compounds in which there is a carbonyl group attached to the 5 membered ring.

US patent applications US 2007 078136 and US 2008 045536 and equivalent application WO 2007 038314 as well as international patent application WO 2008 116064 both disclose various compounds including bicycles which may be useful in the treatment of inflammatory and immune diseases. However these documents do not predominantly relate to 6 5 fused bicyclic compounds that are substituted with both an aromatic group and a morpholinyl group.

French patent application FR 26661163 discloses various 6 5 fused bicycles but does not specifically relate to 6 5 bicycles bearing an aromatic group and a morpholinyl group on the 6 membered ring. Nor does this document relate to kinase inhibitors.

International patent application WO 2010 119264 discloses various imidazopyrazines for use as kinase inhibitors which imidazopyrazines may be substituted with an aromatic group and a morpholinyl group. However this document only relates to imidazopyrazines.

Rand R when present independently represent hydrogen or a substituent selected from halo CN OR N R R C O N R R C e.g. C alkyl and heterocycloalkyl e.g. a 3 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Eand O 

 ii heterocycloalkyl linked to the requisite bicycle of formula I via a carbon atom of that heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q or

Rand Rare linked together along with the requisite nitrogen atom to which they are necessarily attached to form a first 3 to 7 membered cyclic group optionally containing one further heteroatom selected from nitrogen sulfur and oxygen and which ring 

Rrepresents aryl or heteroaryl both of which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E 

halo CN NO N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R C Y N R OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y N R R OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R R S O N ROa R SC Y R S O R SR S O R Calkyl heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O S N R and E aryl or heteroaryl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E each Rindependently represents Calkyl heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O S N R and E aryl or heteroaryl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E each R R R Rand Rindependently represent on each occasion when used herein hydrogen Calkyl heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O S N R and E aryl or heteroaryl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E or any relevant pair of Rand Ror Rand R for example when attached to the same atom adjacent atom i.e. 1 2 relationship or to atoms that are two atoms apart i.e. in a 1 3 relationship may be linked together to form e.g. along with the requisite nitrogen atom to which they may be attached a 4 to 20 e.g. 4 to 12 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms for example in addition to those that may already be present e.g. a heteroatom s selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur optionally containing one or more unsaturations preferably double bonds and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O S N R and E each E E E E E E E E E Eand Eindependently represents on each occasion when used herein i Q ii Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q or any two E E E E E E E E E Eor Egroups for example on Calkyl groups e.g. when they are attached to the same or adjacent carbon atoms or on aromatic groups when attached to adjacent atoms may be linked together to form a 3 to 12 membered ring optionally containing one or more e.g. one to three unsaturations preferably double bonds and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and J each Qand Qindependently represent on each occasion when used herein halo CN NO N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R C Y N R O R OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y N R R OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R R S O N R R SC Y R S O R SR S O R Calkyl heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and J aryl or heteroaryl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from J 

each Rrepresents Calkyl heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Jand O aryl or heteroaryl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from J each R R Rand Rindependently represent on each occasion when used herein hydrogen Calkyl heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Jand O aryl or heteroaryl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from J or any relevant pair of R Rand R may for example when attached to the same atom adjacent atom i.e. 1 2 relationship or to atoms that are two atoms apart i.e. in a 1 3 relationship be linked together to form e.g. along with the requisite nitrogen atom to which they may be attached a 4 to 20 e.g. 4 to 12 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms for example in addition to those that may already be present e.g. a heteroatom s selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur optionally containing one or more unsaturations preferably double bonds and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Jand O each J J J J Jand Jindependently represents on each occasion when used herein i Q ii Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl both of which are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q each Qand Qindependently represents on each occasion when used herein halo CN N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R N R C Y R NRS O R S O N R R N R C Y N R R S O R SR S O R Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms heterocyclalkyl aryl or heteroaryl which latter three groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from halo ORand N R R each Yindependently represents on each occasion when used herein OO S NRor N CN each R R Rand Rindependently represents on each occasion when used herein hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from fluoro ORand N R R or any relevant pair of R Rand Rmay for example when attached to the same or adjacent atoms be linked together to form a 3 to 8 membered ring optionally containing one or more heteroatoms for example in addition to those that may already be present heteroatoms selected from oxygen nitrogen and sulfur optionally containing one or more unsaturations preferably double bonds and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Calkyl 

R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms 

which compounds esters amides solvates and salts are referred to hereinafter as the compounds of the invention .

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include acid addition salts and base addition salts. Such salts may be formed by conventional means for example by reaction of a free acid or a free base form of a compound of formula I with one or more equivalents of an appropriate acid or base optionally in a solvent or in a medium in which the salt is insoluble followed by removal of said solvent or said medium using standard techniques e.g. in vacuo by freeze drying or by filtration . Salts may also be prepared by exchanging a counter ion of a compound of the invention in the form of a salt with another counter ion for example using a suitable ion exchange resin.

By pharmaceutically acceptable ester amide solvate or salt thereof we include salts of pharmaceutically acceptable esters or amides and solvates of pharmaceutically acceptable esters amides or salts. For instance pharmaceutically acceptable esters and amides such as those defined herein may be mentioned as well as pharmaceutically acceptable solvates or salts.

Pharmaceutically acceptable esters and amides of the compounds of the invention are also included within the scope of the invention. Pharmaceutically acceptable esters and amides of compounds of the invention may be formed from corresponding compounds that have an appropriate group for example an acid group converted to the appropriate ester or amide. For example pharmaceutically acceptable esters of carboxylic acids of compounds of the invention that may be mentioned include optionally substituted Calkyl Caryl and or Caryl Calkyl esters. Pharmaceutically acceptable amides of carboxylic acids of compounds of the invention that may be mentioned include those of the formula C O N R R in which Rand Rindependently represent optionally substituted Calkyl Caryl or Caryl Calkylene . Preferably Calkyl groups that may be mentioned in the context of such pharmaceutically acceptable esters and amides are not cyclic e.g. linear and or branched.

Further compounds of the invention that may be mentioned include carbamate carboxamido or ureido derivatives e.g. such derivatives of existing amino functional groups.

For the purposes of this invention therefore prodrugs of compounds of the invention are also included within the scope of the invention.

The term prodrug of a relevant compound of the invention includes any compound that following oral or parenteral administration is metabolised in vivo to form that compound in an experimentally detectable amount and within a predetermined time e.g. within a dosing interval of between 6 and 24 hours i.e. once to four times daily . For the avoidance of doubt the term parenteral administration includes all forms of administration other than oral administration.

Prodrugs of compounds of the invention may be prepared by modifying functional groups present on the compound in such a way that the modifications are cleaved in vivo when such prodrug is administered to a mammalian subject. The modifications typically are achieved by synthesising the parent compound with a prodrug substituent. Prodrugs include compounds of the invention wherein a hydroxyl amino sulfhydryl carboxy or carbonyl group in a compound of the invention is bonded to any group that may be cleaved in vivo to regenerate the free hydroxyl amino sulfhydryl carboxy or carbonyl group respectively.

Examples of prodrugs include but are not limited to esters and carbamates of hydroxy functional groups esters groups of carboxyl functional groups N acyl derivatives and N Mannich bases. General information on prodrugs may be found e.g. in Bundegaard H. Design of Prodrugs p. 1 92 Elesevier New York Oxford 1985 .

Compounds of the invention may contain double bonds and may thus exist as E entgegen and Z zusammen geometric isomers about each individual double bond. Positional isomers may also be embraced by the compounds of the invention. All such isomers e.g. if a compound of the invention incorporates a double bond or a fused ring the cis and trans forms are embraced and mixtures thereof are included within the scope of the invention e.g. single positional isomers and mixtures of positional isomers may be included within the scope of the invention .

Compounds of the invention may also exhibit tautomerism. All tautomeric forms or tautomers and mixtures thereof are included within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerisations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganisation of some of the bonding electrons.

Compounds of the invention may also contain one or more asymmetric carbon atoms and may therefore exhibit optical and or diastereoisomerism. Diastereoisomers may be separated using conventional techniques e.g. chromatography or fractional crystallisation. The various stereoisomers may be isolated by separation of a racemic or other mixture of the compounds using conventional e.g. fractional crystallisation or HPLC techniques. Alternatively the desired optical isomers may be made by reaction of the appropriate optically active starting materials under conditions which will not cause racemisation or epimerisation i.e. a chiral pool method by reaction of the appropriate starting material with a chiral auxiliary which can subsequently be removed at a suitable stage by derivatisation i.e. a resolution including a dynamic resolution for example with a homochiral acid followed by separation of the diastereomeric derivatives by conventional means such as chromatography or by reaction with an appropriate chiral reagent or chiral catalyst all under conditions known to the skilled person.

All stereoisomers including but not limited to diastereoisomers enantiomers and atropisomers and mixtures thereof e.g. racemic mixtures are included within the scope of the invention.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

The present invention also embraces isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature or the most abundant one found in nature . All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified herein are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C O C N O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention e.g. those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and for substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated H and carbon 14 C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Scheme 1 and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Unless otherwise specified Calkyl groups where q is the upper limit of the range defined herein may be straight chain or when there is a sufficient number i.e. a minimum of two or three as appropriate of carbon atoms be branched chain and or cyclic so forming a C cycloalkyl group . Such cycloalkyl groups may be monocyclic or bicyclic and may further be bridged. Further when there is a sufficient number i.e. a minimum of four of carbon atoms such groups may also be part cyclic. Such alkyl groups may also be saturated or when there is a sufficient number i.e. a minimum of two of carbon atoms be unsaturated forming for example a Calkenyl or a Calkynyl group .

Unless otherwise stated the term Calkylene where q is the upper limit of the range defined herein may be straight chain or when there is a sufficient number of carbon atoms be saturated or unsaturated so forming for example an alkenylene or alkynylene linker group . However such Calkylene groups may not be branched.

Ccycloalkyl groups where q is the upper limit of the range that may be specifically mentioned may be monocyclic or bicyclic alkyl groups which cycloalkyl groups may further be bridged so forming for example fused ring systems such as three fused cycloalkyl groups . Such cycloalkyl groups may be saturated or unsaturated containing one or more double bonds forming for example a cycloalkenyl group . Substituents may be attached at any point on the cycloalkyl group. Further where there is a sufficient number i.e. a minimum of four such cycloalkyl groups may also be part cyclic.

Heterocycloalkyl groups that may be mentioned include non aromatic monocyclic and bicyclic heterocycloalkyl groups in which at least one e.g. one to four of the atoms in the ring system is other than carbon i.e. a heteroatom and in which the total number of atoms in the ring system is between 3 and 20 e.g. between three and ten e.g. between 3 and 8 such as 5 to 8 . Such heterocycloalkyl groups may also be bridged. Further such heterocycloalkyl groups may be saturated or unsaturated containing one or more double and or triple bonds forming for example a Cheterocycloalkenyl where q is the upper limit of the range group. Cheterocycloalkyl groups that may be mentioned include 7 azabicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl 6 azabicyclo 3.1.1 heptanyl 6 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octanyl 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octanyl aziridinyl azetidinyl dihydropyranyl dihydropyridyl dihydropyrrolyl including 2 5 dihydropyrrolyl dioxolanyl including 1 3 dioxolanyl dioxanyl including 1 3 dioxanyl and 1 4 dioxanyl dithianyl including 1 4 dithianyl dithiolanyl including 1 3 dithiolanyl imidazolidinyl imidazolinyl morpholinyl 7 oxabicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl 6 oxabicyclo 3.2.1 octanyl oxetanyl oxiranyl piperazinyl piperidinyl pyranyl pyrazolidinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl pyrrolinyl quinuclidinyl sulfolanyl 3 sulfolenyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyridyl such as 1 2 3 4 tetrahydropyridyl and 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridyl thietanyl thiiranyl thiolanyl thiomorpholinyl trithianyl including 1 3 5 trithianyl tropanyl and the like. Substituents on heterocycloalkyl groups may where appropriate be located on any atom in the ring system including a heteroatom. The point of attachment of heterocycloalkyl groups may be via any atom in the ring system including where appropriate a heteroatom such as a nitrogen atom or an atom on any fused carbocyclic ring that may be present as part of the ring system. Heterocycloalkyl groups may also be in the N or S oxidised form. Heterocycloalkyl mentioned herein may be stated to be specifically monocyclic or bicyclic.

For the avoidance of doubt the term bicyclic e.g. when employed in the context of heterocycloalkyl groups refers to groups in which the second ring of a two ring system is formed between two adjacent atoms of the first ring. The term bridged e.g. when employed in the context of cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl groups refers to monocyclic or bicyclic groups in which two non adjacent atoms are linked by either an alkylene or heteroalkylene chain as appropriate .

Aryl groups that may be mentioned include C such as C e.g. C aryl groups. Such groups may be monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic and have between 6 and 12 e.g. 6 and 10 ring carbon atoms in which at least one ring is aromatic. Caryl groups include phenyl naphthyl and the like such as 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro naphthyl. The point of attachment of aryl groups may be via any atom of the ring system. For example when the aryl group is polycyclic the point of attachment may be via atom including an atom of a non aromatic ring. However when aryl groups are polycyclic e.g. bicyclic or tricyclic they are preferably linked to the rest of the molecule via an aromatic ring.

Unless otherwise specified the term heteroaryl when used herein refers to an aromatic group containing one or more heteroatom s e.g. one to four heteroatoms preferably selected from N O and S. Heteroaryl groups include those which have between 5 and 20 members e.g. between 5 and 10 and may be monocyclic bicyclic or tricyclic provided that at least one of the rings is aromatic so forming for example a mono bi or tricyclic heteroaromatic group . When the heteroaryl group is polycyclic the point of attachment may be via atom including an atom of a non aromatic ring. However when heteroaryl groups are polycyclic e.g. bicyclic or tricyclic they are preferably linked to the rest of the molecule via an aromatic ring. Heteroaryl groups that may be mentioned include 3 4 dihydro 1H isoquinolinyl 1 3 dihydroisoindolyl 1 3 dihydroisoindolyl e.g. 3 4 dihydro 1H isoquinolin 2 yl 1 3 dihydroisoindol 2 yl 1 3 dihydroisoindol 2 yl i.e. heteroaryl groups that are linked via a non aromatic ring or preferably acridinyl benzimidazolyl benzodioxanyl benzodioxepinyl benzodioxolyl including 1 3 benzodioxolyl benzofuranyl benzofurazanyl benzothiadiazolyl including 2 1 3 benzothiadiazolyl benzothiazolyl benzoxadiazolyl including 2 1 3 benzoxadiazolyl benzoxazinyl including 3 4 dihydro 2H 1 4 benzoxazinyl benzoxazolyl benzomorpholinyl benzoselenadiazolyl including 2 1 3 benzoselenadiazolyl benzothienyl carbazolyl chromanyl cinnolinyl furanyl imidazolyl imidazo 1 2 a pyridyl indazolyl indolinyl indolyl isobenzofuranyl isochromanyl isoindolinyl isoindolyl isoquinolinyl isothiaziolyl isothiochromanyl isoxazolyl naphthyridinyl including 1 6 naphthyridinyl or preferably 1 5 naphthyridinyl and 1 8 naphthyridinyl oxadiazolyl including 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazolyl and 1 3 4 oxadiazolyl oxazolyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phthalazinyl pteridinyl purinyl pyranyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyridazinyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrrolyl quinazolinyl quinolinyl quinolizinyl quinoxalinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl including 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl and 5 6 7 8 tetrahydroisoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl including 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinolinyl and 5 6 7 8 tetrahydroquinolinyl tetrazolyl thiadiazolyl including 1 2 3 thiadiazolyl 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl and 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl thiazolyl thiochromanyl thiophenetyl thienyl triazolyl including 1 2 3 triazolyl 1 2 4 triazolyl and 1 3 4 triazolyl and the like. Substituents on heteroaryl groups may where appropriate be located on any atom in the ring system including a heteroatom. The point of attachment of heteroaryl groups may be via any atom in the ring system including where appropriate a heteroatom such as a nitrogen atom or an atom on any fused carbocyclic ring that may be present as part of the ring system. Heteroaryl groups may also be in the N or S oxidised form. Heteroaryl groups mentioned herein may be stated to be specifically monocyclic or bicyclic. When heteroaryl groups are polycyclic in which there is a non aromatic ring present then that non aromatic ring may be substituted by one or more O group.

It may be specifically stated that the heteroaryl group is monocyclic or bicyclic. In the case where it is specified that the heteroaryl is bicyclic then it may be consist of a five six or seven membered monocyclic ring e.g. a monocyclic heteroaryl ring fused with another a five six or seven membered ring e.g. a monocyclic aryl or heteroaryl ring .

Heteroatoms that may be mentioned include phosphorus silicon boron and preferably oxygen nitrogen and sulfur.

For the avoidance of doubt where it is stated herein that a group e.g. a Calkyl group may be substituted by one or more substituents e.g. selected from E then those substituents e.g. defined by E are independent of one another. That is such groups may be substituted with the same substituent e.g. defined by E or different substituents defined by E .

For the avoidance of doubt in cases in which the identity of two or more substituents in a compound of the invention may be the same the actual identities of the respective substituents are not in any way interdependent. For example in the situation in which there is more than one e.g. Q Qor Eto E such as E substituent present then those Q Qor Eto E e.g. E substituents may be the same or different. Further in the case where there are e.g. Q Qor Eto E such as E substituents present in which one represents OR or e.g. OR as appropriate and the other represents C O R or e.g. C O R as appropriate then those Ror Rgroups are not to be regarded as being interdependent. Also when e.g. there are two ORsubstituents present then those ORgroups may be the same or different i.e. each Rgroup may be the same or different .

For the avoidance of doubt when a term such as Eto E is employed herein this will be understood by the skilled person to mean E E E E E E E E E if present E Eand E inclusively. The term Bto B as employed herein will be understood to mean B B B B B B Band B inclusively.

All individual features e.g. preferred features mentioned herein may be taken in isolation or in combination with any other feature including preferred feature mentioned herein hence preferred features may be taken in conjunction with other preferred features or independently of them .

The skilled person will appreciate that compounds of the invention that are the subject of this invention include those that are stable. That is compounds of the invention include those that are sufficiently robust to survive isolation from e.g. a reaction mixture to a useful degree of purity.

halo CN NO N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y N ROa R OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R R S O N R R SC Y R S O R SR S O R Calkyl heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O S N R and E aryl or heteroaryl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E each Qand Qindependently represent on each occasion when used herein halo CN NO N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y N R R OS O R OP Y OR OR OP OR OR N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R R S O N R R SC Y R S O R SR S O R Calkyl heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and J aryl or heteroaryl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from J each Qand Qindependently represents on each occasion when used herein halo CN N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N RO R N R C Y R NRS O R S O R SR S O Ror Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms.

The skilled person will appreciate that the bicyclic core of the compounds of the invention containing A A Aand A is are aromatic. It is further stated herein that at least one of Aand Adoes not represent N i.e. that at least one of C R or C R is present. Both C R and C R may also be present and preferably at least one of Rand Ris present that represents either Calkyl optionally substituted as defined herein e.g. by one or more substituents selected from Q or selected from O S N R and Q or a fragment of formula IA as defined herein or in the case of R may also represent hydrogen .

Compounds of the invention include those as hereinbefore defined but provided that when A Aand Arespectively represent C R C R and C R then Adoes not represent N i.e. the requisite bicycle containing A A Aand A of formula I may not be the following 

Compounds of the invention that may be mentioned include those in which for example when Aand Aboth represent N and Aand Arespectively represent C R and C R and hence the requisite bicyclic core of the compound of formula I is a 1 2 4 triazolo 4 3 a pyrazine preferably Rdoes not represent phenyl e.g. optionally substituted preferably unsubstituted phenyl .

Rrepresents Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Q heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q or a fragment of formula IA and Rrepresents hydrogen or Q 

when Rrepresents Q then it is preferably not Calkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl optionally substituted as hereinbefore defined but rather in this instance Qpreferably represents halo CN NO N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y N R R OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R R S O N Ra R SC Y R S O R SRor S O R in which R Rand Rpreferably and independently represent hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms preferably when Rrepresents Q then it is halo CN NO N R R OR C Y R C Y Y OR C Y N R R N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N Ra R NRS O R NRS O N R Ror S O N R R in which R Rand Rpreferably and independently represent hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms more preferably when Rrepresents Q then it is halo CN NO N R R OR N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R Ror S O N R R in which R Rand Rpreferably and independently represent hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms.

 ii heterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q or

when R if present represents optionally substituted Calkyl then it represents Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Q 

Qrepresents halo CN NO N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y N ROa R OS O OR OP Y OR OR OP OR OR N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R R S O N R R SC Y R S O R SRor S O R in which R Rand Rpreferably and independently represent hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms 

preferably Qrepresents halo CN NO N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N ROa R N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R Ror S O N R R in which R Rand Rpreferably and independently represent hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms more preferably Qrepresents halo CN NO N R R OR N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R Ror S O N R R in which R Rand Rpreferably and independently represent hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms.

Compounds of the invention that may be mentioned include those in which each Qindependently represents on each occasion when used herein halo CN NO OR OC Y R OC Y OR OC Y N ROa R OS O OR OP Y OR OR OR OP OR OR N R C Y R SC Y R SR S O ROa Calkyl heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E aryl or heteroaryl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E 

more preferably each Qindependently represents on each occasion when used herein halo CN NO Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E .

Compounds of the invention that may be mentioned include those in which for example when Aand Arepresent N Arepresents C R and Arepresents C R then Rpreferably does not represent ORin which Rrepresents H.

Further compounds of the invention that may be mentioned include those in which for example when Arepresents N Arepresents C R Arepresents N and Arepresents C R then Rdoes not represent aryl e.g. phenyl especially unsubstituted aryl phenyl.

For the avoidance of doubt the requisite bicycle of formula I refers to the aromatic bicycle containing the integers A A Aand A as well as the further two nitrogen atoms and three carbon atoms . The following requisite bicycles of formula I are particularly preferred 

The preferred bicycles depicted above may exist in different forms for example as the following alternative aromatic bicycle 

Ris CRR NRRwhere m is 1 2 or 3 and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a C Cheterocyclic ring and R if present is H halo CN Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Cheterocycloalkyl C O N RR ORor NRR 

Ris CRR NRS O Rwhere n is 1 or 2 R R and Rare independently selected from H and Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl or C Caryl and R if present is H halo CN Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Cheterocycloalkyl C O N RR ORor NRR 

Ris CRR ORwhere n is 1 or 2 and R Rand Rare independently selected from H and Calkyl and R if present is H halo CN Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Cheterocycloalkyl C O N RR ORor NRR 

Ris CRR S O Rwhere n is 1 or 2 and Rand Rare H Rmay be Calkyl or C Caryl and R if present is H halo CN Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Cheterocycloalkyl C O N RR ORor NRR 

Ris CRR S O NRRwhere n is 1 or 2 and Rand Rare H and R if present is H halo CN Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Cheterocycloalkyl C O N RR ORor NRR 

Ris C Calkyl and R if present is H halo CN Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Cheterocycloalkyl C O N RR ORor NRR Ris C Calkenyl and R if present is H halo CN Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Cheterocycloalkyl C O N RR ORor NRR 

Ris C Calkynyl the C Calkynyl may be substituted with C Cheterocyclyl which includes but is not limited to morpholinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl and pyrrolidinyl and R if present is H halo CN Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Cheterocycloalkyl C O N RR ORor NRR 

Ris C Ccarbocyclyl and R if present is H halo CN Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Cheterocycloalkyl C O N RR ORor NRR 

Ris C Cheterocyclyl attached via a carbon atom and R if present is H halo CN Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Cheterocycloalkyl C O N RR ORor NRR 

Ris CRR NRRwhere m is 1 2 or 3 and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a C Cheterocyclic ring and R if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris CRR NRS O Rwhere n is 1 or 2 R R and Rare independently selected from H and Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl or C Caryl and R if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris CRR ORwhere n is 1 or 2 and R Rand Rare independently selected from H and Calkyl and R if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris CRR S O Rwhere n is 1 or 2 and Rand Rare H Rmay be Calkyl or C Caryl and R if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris CRR S O NRRwhere n is 1 or 2 and Rand Rare H and R if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris C Y NRRwhere Y is O and Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form the C Cheterocyclic ring Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached may form a C Cheterocyclic ring selected from morpholinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl and pyrrolidinyl and Ris preferably not present but if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris C Y NRRwhere Y is O and Roand Rare independently selected from H and C Calkyl and Ris preferably not present but if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris C Y NRRwhere Y is O and Rand Rare independently selected from H and C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl and C Cheteroaryl and Ris preferably not present but if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris NHRwhere Ris C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl or Rmay be phenyl or 4 pyridyl and Ris preferably not present but if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris NRC Y Rwhere Y is O Ris H or C Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl and Ris preferably not present but if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris NRS O Rwhere Ris H or C Calkyl and Ris C Calkyl C Ccarbocyclyl C Cheterocyclyl C Caryl or C Cheteroaryl and Ris preferably not present but if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris S O NRRwhere Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a C Cheterocyclyl ring selected from morpholinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl and pyrrolidinyl and Ris preferably not present but if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris S O NRRwhere Rand Rare independently selected from H and C Calkyl Rand Rmay be independently selected from H substituted ethyl and substituted propyl and Ris preferably not present but if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris C Calkyl and R if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris C Calkenyl and R if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris C Calkynyl the C Calkynyl may be substituted with C Cheterocyclyl which includes but is not limited to morpholinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl and pyrrolidinyl and R if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris C Ccarbocyclyl and R if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom 

Ris C Cheterocyclyl and R if present is Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom .

In the above two paragraphs and in certain other paragraphs herein any relevant alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl groups may be optionally substituted by relevant substituents defined herein for example by a substituent defined by Q Q Q Q E E Q Q Jor J e.g. by Q Eand or E and or if applicable by O . Further unless otherwise specified in the above two paragraphs 

 i each Rand Rrespectively represents substituents Rand Ras defined herein and more preferably they respectively represent substituents Rand Ras defined herein 

 ii each Rand Rmay independently represent a substituent as defined by Rherein i.e. each may independently represent hydrogen a substituent as defined herein or Rand Rmay be linked together in the same manner as two Rgroups attached to the same carbon atom may be iii each R Rand Rrespectively represents a substituent as defined by the substituents R Rand R and any relevant pair may be linked together .

In certain embodiments Rrepresent a fragment of formula IA as depicted hereinbefore in which R Ris as described above and Ris H halo CN Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Cheterocycloalkyl C O N RR OR NRR. The integers Rand Rare as defined herein.

In certain embodiments Rrepresent a fragment of formula IA as depicted hereinbefore in which R Ris as described above and Ris Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C Cheterocycloalkyl linked via a carbon atom . The integers Rand Rare as defined herein.

Exemplary embodiments of Rinclude but are not limited to pyrrole pyrazole triazole tetrazole thiazole isothiazole oxazole isoxazole isoindole 1 3 dihydro indol 2 one pyridine 2 one pyridine pyridine 3 ol imidazole 1H indazole 1H indole indolin 2 one 1 indolin 1 yl ethanone pyrimidine pyridazine pyrazine and isatin groups. 1H benzo d 1 2 3 triazole 1H pyrazolo 3 4 b pyridine 1H pyrazolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 1H benzo d imidazole 1H benzo d imidazol 2 3H one 1H pyrazolo 3 4 c pyridine 1H pyrazolo 4 3 d pyrimidine 5H pyrrolo 3 2 d pyrimidine 2 amino 1H purin 6 9H one quinoline quinazoline quinoxaline isoquinoline isoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroisoquinolin 1 2H one 3 4 dihydroquinolin 2 1H one quinazolin 2 1H one quinoxalin 2 1H one 1 8 napthyridine pyrido 3 4 d pyrimidine and pyrido 3 2 b pyrazine 1 3 dihydro benzimidazolone benzimidazole benzothiazole and benzothiadiazole groups. These groups may be unsubstituted or substituted.

The attachment site of the Rgroup to the relevant carbon atom of the requisite bicyclic A A Aand A containing ring of formula I may preferably be via any carbon of the Rgroup carbon linked .

More exemplary embodiments of Rinclude but are not limited to the following groups where the wavy line indicates the site of attachment to the requisite bicyclic core of formula I 

when Rrepresents aryl e.g. phenyl then that group may be unsubstituted but is preferably substituted by at least one e.g. two or preferably one substituent s selected from E 

when Rrepresents monocyclic heteroaryl e.g. a 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl group then that group preferably contains 1 2 3 or 4 nitrogen atoms and optionally 1 or 2 additional heteroatoms selected from oxygen and sulfur and which heteroaryl group is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from E preferably such monocyclic heteroaryl groups preferably contain a maximum of four heteroatoms when Rrepresents bicyclic heteroaryl e.g. a 8 9 or 10 membered heteroaryl group then that group preferably consists of a 5 or 6 membered ring fused to another 5 or 6 membered ring in which either one of those rings may contain one or more e.g. four or preferably one to three heteroatoms in which the total number of heteroatoms is preferably one to four and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more e.g. two or preferably one substituent s selected from E and if there is a non aromatic ring present in the bicyclic heteroaryl group then such a group may also be substituted by one or more e.g. one O groups optional substituents e.g. the first optional substituent on the Rgroup e.g. when it represents aryl such as phenyl are preferably selected from OR SR CHOR COR CFOH CH CF OH C CF OH CH OR CH NR C O N R NR NRC O R NRC O NHR NRC O N R S O N R OC O R OC O N R NRS O R NRC O N R CN halogen and NO in which each R is independently selected from H C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl and a 5 to 12 membered aryl or heteroaryl group the groups being unsubstituted or substituted for example by one or more substituents as defined herein e.g. substituents on Emoieties e.g. O J J Jand or J w is 0 1 or 2 and y is 1 or 2 when Rrepresents aryl e.g. phenyl then that group is substituted by one or two substituents e.g. by a first substituent as defined above and optionally a further substituent or a further two substituents preferably selected from halo Calkyl CN NO OR SR NR2 C O R SOR SOR SON R NC O Rand COR wherein each Ris independently H or C Calkyl when Rrepresents substituted aryl e.g. phenyl then the substituent may be situated at the 2 3 4 5 or 6 position of the phenyl ring typically it is situated at position 3 or 4 particularly preferred are phenyl groups substituted by OR in which Ris independently H or C Calkyl e.g. methyl e.g. OH in this embodiment the ORgroup or OH group is typically situated at the 3 or 4 position of the phenyl ring so forming a 3 hydroxyphenyl or 4 hydroxyphenyl group or an isostere thereof which is unsubstituted or substituted an isostere as used herein is a functional group which possesses binding properties which are the same as or similar to the 3 hydroxyphenyl or 4 hydroxyphenyl group in the context of the compounds of the invention isosteres of 3 hydroxyphenyl and 4 hydroxyphenyl groups are encompassed within definitions b above for R when Rrepresents heteroaryl it is unsubstituted or substituted when substituted it may be substituted by one or more substitutents selected from those listed in respect of substituents on R when Ris a phenyl group typically the substituents are selected from OC alkyl and preferably OH and NH .

B B B B B B Band Bindependently represent hydrogen C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E or any two of these together form a O substituent on the morpholinyl ring or any two B B B B B B Band Bsubstituents when linked together may form a linkage for example between a Bor Bsubstituent and a Bor Bsubstituent for a further ring e.g. a five membered ring such as the one depicted below 

each R R R Rand Rindependently represent on each occasion when used herein hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl which latter group is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E or

any relevant pair of Rand Rand or Rand Rmay when attached to the same nitrogen atom be linked together to form along with the requisite nitrogen atom to which they are attached a 3 to 12 e.g. 4 to 12 membered ring optionally containing one or more e.g. one to three double bonds and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Eand O each Rindependently represents C e.g. C alkyl which latter group is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E each of E E E E E E E E E Eand Eindependently represents on each occasion when used herein Qor Calkyl e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q each Qand Qindependently represent halo CN NO N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R R S O N R R S O R SR S O Ror Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms and each Qmore preferably represents halo such as fluoro any two E E E E E E E E E Eor Egroups may be linked together but are preferably not linked together each R R Rand Rindependently represent on each occasion when used herein aryl e.g. phenyl preferably unsubstituted but which may be substituted by one to three Jgroups or more preferably hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and J or any pair of Rand R may when attached to the same nitrogen atom be linked together to form a 4 to 8 membered e.g. 5 or 6 membered ring optionally containing one further heteroatom selected from nitrogen and oxygen optionally containing one double bond and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Jand O each Rindependently represents C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and J each J J J J Jand Jindependently represent Calkyl e.g. acyclic Calkyl or e.g. in the case of J Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q or more preferably such groups independently represent a substituent selected from Q each Qand Qindependently represents a substituent selected from fluoro N R R OR C Y R C Y OR C Y N R R NRS O R S O Ror Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms each R R Rand Rsubstituent independently represents on each occasion when used herein hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from fluoro when any relevant pair of R Rand Rare linked together then those pairs that are attached to the same nitrogen atom may be linked together i.e. any pair of Rand R and the ring so formed is preferably a 5 or 6 membered ring optionally containing one further nitrogen or oxygen heteroatom and which ring is optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Calkyl e.g. methyl R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or Cl e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms.

Preferred optional substituents on R and possibly when they represent a substituent other than hydrogen on R R Rand Rgroups include 

Calkyl such as Ccycloalkyl or acyclic Calkyl which alkyl group may be cyclic part cyclic unsaturated or preferably linear or branched e.g. Calkyl such as ethyl n propyl isopropyl t butyl or preferably n butyl or methyl all of which are optionally substituted with one or more halo e.g. fluoro groups so forming for example fluoromethyl difluoromethyl or preferably trifluoromethyl or substituted with an aryl heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl group which themselves may be substituted with one or more OR C O R C O OR N R R S O R S O N R R N R C O R C O N R Rzand or N R C O N R substituents a 5 or 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group optionally substituted with one or more OR C O R C O OR N R R S O R S O N R R N R C O R C O N R Rand or N R C O N R substituents such heterocycloalkyl groups are preferably present on alkyl groups aryl e.g. phenyl if appropriate e.g. when the substitutent is on an alkyl group thereby forming e.g. a benzyl group OR C O R C O OR N R R S O R S O N R R N R C O R C O N R R N R C O N R wherein each Rto Rindependently represents on each occasion when used herein H or Calkyl e.g. ethyl n propyl t butyl or preferably n butyl methyl isopropyl or cyclopropylmethyl i.e. a part cyclic alkyl group optionally substituted by one or more halo e.g. fluoro groups so forming e.g. a trifluoromethyl group or may also be substituted by one aryl e.g. phenyl group so forming e.g. a benzyl group . Further any two Rgroups e.g. Rand R when attached to the same nitrogen heteroatom may also be linked together to form a ring such as one hereinbefore defined in respect of corresponding linkage of Rand Ror Rand Rgroups.

Rrepresents hydrogen or a substituent selected from N R Rand preferably halo e.g. chloro bromo or iodo and CN 

Qand Qindependently represent halo CN NO N R R OR C Y N R R C Y R C Y OR N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R Ror S O N R R 

Qand Qindependently represent halo CN NO N R R OR C Y N R R C Y R C Y OR N R C Y R N R C Y OR N R C Y N R R NRS O R NRS O N R R S O N R Ror heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E 

R Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms 

each E E E E E E E E E Eand Eindependently represents Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q or preferably each Eto Eindependently represent Q 

each R R Rand R e.g. each Rand R independently represents heteroaryl preferably aryl e.g. phenyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from J or more preferably hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and J or any relevant pair of R Rand R e.g. Rand R may e.g. when both are attached to the same nitrogen atom may be linked together to form a 3 to 8 e.g. 4 to 8 membered ring optionally containing a further heteroatom and optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and J Rrepresents C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and J each J J J J Jand Jindependently represent Calkyl e.g. Cacyclic alkyl or Ccycloalkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from Q or Jto Jmore preferably represent a substituent selected from Q each Qand Qindependently represent halo N R R OR C Y ORS C Y RO S O Ror Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms each R R Rand Rindependently represents hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms each R Rand Rindependently represents hydrogen or Calkyl e.g. methyl .

Qand Qindependently represent halo CN NO N R R OR C Y N R R C Y R C Y OR N R C Y Ror heterocycloalkyl optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E 

each R R R Rand Rindependently represents hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl which alkyl group may by substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E but which alkyl group is more preferably unsubstituted or

any relevant pair of Rand Rand or Rand R may be linked together to form a 5 or preferably a 6 membered ring optionally containing a further heteroatom preferably selected from nitrogen and oxygen which ring is preferably saturated so forming for example a piperazinyl or morpholinyl group and optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and E which Esubstituent may be situated on a nitrogen heteroatom and or Eis preferably halo e.g. fluoro or Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms each E E E E E E E E E Eand Eindependently represent Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more Qsubstituents or each of these preferably represent a substituent selected from Q Qand Qindependently represent halo e.g. fluoro OR N R R C Y OR C Y N R R NRS O R heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl which latter three groups are optionally substituted with one or more substitutents selected from Jor J as appropriate and or Calkyl e.g. Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms each Y represents on each occasion when used herein S or preferably O each R R Rand R e.g. each Rand R independently represents hydrogen or C e.g. C alkyl e.g. tert butyl ethyl methyl or a part cyclic group such as cyclopropylmethyl optionally substituted but preferably unsubstituted by one or more e.g. one Jsubstituent s or any relevant pair of R Rand R e.g. Rand R may e.g. when both are attached to the same nitrogen atom may be linked together to form a 5 or preferably a 6 membered ring optionally containing a further heteroatom preferably selected from nitrogen and oxygen which ring is preferably saturated so forming for example a piperazinyl or morpholinyl group and optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and J which Jsubstituent may be situated on a nitrogen heteroatom Rrepresents Calkyl or preferably hydrogen each J J J J Jand Jindependently represent a substituent selected from Q or Jto J e.g. J represents Calkyl e.g. Ccycloalkyl each Qand Qindependently represent C Y OR C Y R S O Ror Calkyl optionally substituted by one or more fluoro atoms each Yindependently represents S or preferably O each Rindependently represents Calkyl e.g. tert butyl or methyl .

Preferred Rgroups of the compounds of the compounds of the invention include optionally substituted phenyl indazolyl e.g. 4 indazolyl pyrimidinyl e.g. 5 pyrimidinyl azaindolyl e.g. azaindol 5 yl indolyl e.g. 5 indolyl or 4 indolyl and pyridyl e.g. 3 pyridyl . Particularly preferred Rgroups of the compounds of the compounds of the invention include optionally substituted pyridyl e.g. 3 pyridyl and preferably phenyl indazolyl e.g. 4 indazolyl and pyrimidinyl e.g. 5 pyrimidinyl .

Rrepresents aryl e.g. phenyl or heteroaryl e.g. a 5 or 6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl group or a 9 or 10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl group 

which groups may contain one to four e.g. 3 or preferably 1 or 2 heteroatoms preferably selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur both of which are optionally substituted by one or more e.g. two or preferably one substituent s selected from E e.g. CF preferably OH OCalkyl e.g. OCH and or N R R e.g. NH Eto Eindependently represent C e.g. C such as methyl alkyl optionally substituted by one or more Qsubstituents or preferably Q Qrepresents Calkyl or preferably Qrepresents OR N R R S O R heterocycloalkyl e.g. a 4 to 6 membered ring containing preferably one or two heteroatoms selected from nitrogen and oxygen aryl e.g. phenyl optionally substituted with two or preferably one substituent selected from J or heteroaryl e.g. a 5 or 6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl group preferably containing one or two heteroatoms preferably selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur which group may be substituted but is preferably unsubstituted when Erepresents Q then Qpreferably represents ORor N R R when Erepresents Q then Qpreferably represents Calkyl or more preferably S O R when Erepresents Q then Qpreferably represents OR S O Ror aryl e.g. phenyl which is preferably unsubstituted Qrepresents halo e.g. fluoro Y represents O Rand Rindependently represent hydrogen Calkyl e.g. isopropyl or preferably methyl or ethyl which latter group is optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent s selected from J when there is a N R Rmoiety present then one of Rand Rrepresents hydrogen and the other represents hydrogen or Calkyl e.g. methyl or ethyl which latter group is optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent s selected from J Jrepresents Q Jrepresents Qor Calkyl such as Calkyl e.g. Ccycloalkyl Jmore preferably represents Calkyl such as Calkyl especially Ccycloalkyl such as cyclopropyl Qrepresents S O Ror aryl e.g. phenyl optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substitutents e.g. at the 4 position by OR Qmore preferably represents S O R when Jrepresents Q then Qpreferably represents S O R when Jrepresents Q then Qpreferably represents aryl e.g. phenyl optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substitutents e.g. at the 4 position by OR Rrepresents Calkyl e.g. methyl Rrepresents Calkyl e.g. methyl B B B B B B Band Bindependently represent C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by halo or these groups preferably represent hydrogen.

R when present represents a fragment of formula IA or preferably i C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from

Q or ii heterocycloalkyl linked to the requisite bicycle of formula I via a carbon atom optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from O and Q but preferably unsubstituted the heterocycloalkyl group is preferably a 5 or more preferably 6 membered ring containing one or two e.g. one heteroatom s preferably selected from oxygen and nitrogen for instance 4 piperidinyl or 4 tetrahydropyranyl 

Rrepresents hydrogen C e.g. C alkyl optionally substituted by one or more substituents selected from S N R preferably O and more preferably Q 

Q when present although it is preferably not present represents C Y N R R and Qpreferably does not represent alkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl 

Qand Qindependently represent OR N R Ror heterocycloalkyl e.g. a 7 preferably 5 or more preferably a 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group containing one or two heteroatoms preferably selected from nitrogen and oxygen e.g. diazepanyl and preferably piperazinyl piperidinyl morpholinyl and tetrahydropyranyl which is optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E more preferably Qrepresents heterocycloalkyl as defined herein 

Rand Rare linked together to form a 5 or 6 membered ring e.g. a 5 membered ring preferably containing no further heteroatoms e.g. a pyrrolidinyl group which is fused to a second 5 or 6 membered e.g. 5 membered saturated heterocycloalkyl group e.g. containing one heteroatom e.g. a pyrrolidinyl group 

Rrepresents hydroxyphenyl e.g. 3 hydroxyphenyl methoxyphenyl e.g. 3 methoxyphenyl indazolyl e.g. 4 indazolyl pyrimidinyl e.g. 5 pyrimidinyl such as 2 amino 5 pyrimidinyl i.e. 2 N R R pyrimidin 5 yl such as 2 NH pyrimidin 5 yl or 2 N H CH cyclopropyl pyrimidin 5 yl or 2 methoxy 5 pyrimidinyl azaindolyl e.g. 7 azaindol 5 yl indolyl e.g. 5 indolyl or 4 indolyl such as 5 fluoro 4 indolyl pyridyl e.g. 3 pyridyl such as 6 NH pyrid 3 yl 5 OCH pyrid 3 yl or 5 CF 6 NH pyrid 3 yl other Rgroups that may be mentioned include 2 N H CH 4 methoxyphenyl pyrimidin 5 yl and 6 N H CH 4 methoxyphenyl pyridin 3 yl 

More preferred compounds of the invention in particular those in which Arepresents N Arepresents N Arepresents C R and Arepresents C R but also other bicycles defined herein include those in which 

Rrepresents i C e.g. C alkyl e.g. cyclopropyl isopropyl ethyl or CH optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from Q wherein the substituent may be at the terminal position of the alkyl group or otherwise e.g. Rmay be ethyl substituted at the positon i.e. C H Q CH or ii Rrepresents a 5 or 6 e.g. 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group preferably containing one heteroatom selected from nitrogen and oxygen which is preferably at the para position so forming e.g. a 4 piperidinyl or 4 tetrahydropyranyl group which group is preferably unsubstituted 

Rrepresents heteroaryl e.g. a monocyclic 5 or preferably 6 membered heteroaryl group or a bicyclic 10 or preferably 9 membered heteroaryl group in which there is one or two e.g. two heteroatoms present selected from sulfur oxygen or preferably nitrogen so forming for example a pyrimidinyl or indazolyl group which is optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E 

Qrepresents OR N R Ror heterocycloalkyl e.g. a 5 or preferably a 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group containing one or two heteroatoms preferably selected from nitrogen and oxygen e.g. piperazinyl piperidinyl morpholinyl and tetrahydropyranyl which is optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E 

Rrepresents H or preferably Calkyl e.g. ethyl optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one Egroup e.g. OR 

Rand Rmay be linked together to form a 5 or preferably 6 membered ring optionally containing one further heteroatom in addition to the nitrogen heteroatom that is necessarily present but preferably Rand Ra are not linked together 

More preferred compounds of the invention in particular those in which Arepresents C R Arepresents N Arepresents C R and Arepresents C R include those in which 

Rrepresents a fragment of formula IA or more preferably Calkyl e.g. CH optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from Q 

Rand Rare linked together to form a 5 or 6 membered ring e.g. a 5 membered ring preferably containing no further heteroatoms e.g. a pyrrolidinyl group which is fused to a second 5 or 6 membered e.g. 5 membered saturated heterocycloalkyl group e.g. containing one heteroatom e.g. a pyrrolidinyl group so forming e.g. a hexahydro pyrrolo pyrrolyl group such as hexahydro pyrrolo 3 4 c pyrrol 2 yl 

Rrepresents aryl e.g. phenyl optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituents selected from E or Rmay represent heteroaryl e.g. a monocyclic 5 or preferably 6 membered heteroaryl group in which there is one or two e.g. two heteroatoms present selected from sulfur oxygen or preferably nitrogen so forming for example a pyridyl or preferablyl a pyrimidinyl group such as 5 pyrimidinyl optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituents selected from E which may be located at the 2 position of the pyrimidinyl group 

Qrepresents N R Ror preferably ORor heterocycloalkyl e.g. a 7 preferably 5 or more preferably a 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group containing one or two heteroatoms preferably selected from nitrogen and oxygen e.g. diazepanyl morpholinyl or preferably piperazinyl which is optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E which Esubstituent may be located on a nitrogen heteroatom 

Rrepresents H Calkyl or heterocycloalkyl e.g. a 7 or preferably 5 or more preferably 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group e.g. containing one or two e.g. one heteroatoms in which one is preferably nitrogen e.g. a diazepanyl group e.g. 1 4 diazepany 1 yl morpholinyl e.g. 4 morpholinyl piperazinyl e.g. 1 piperazinyl or preferably a piperidinyl group such as 4 piperidinyl which latter two groups are optionally substituted with one or more e.g. one substituent s selected from E which may be located on a nitrogen heteroatom of a heterocycloalkyl group 

Rrepresents H or Calkyl e.g. isopropyl or preferably methyl optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituents selected from J for instance when Qrepresents N R R then Rmay represent substituted alkyl 

Qrepresents aryl e.g. phenyl optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substitutents e.g. at the 4 position by OR 

More preferred compounds of the invention in particular those in which Arepresents N Arepresents C R Arepresents N and Arepresents C R include those in which 

Rrepresents Calkyl e.g. CH optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from Q but preferably unsubstituted 

Rrepresents aryl e.g. phenyl or heteroaryl e.g. a monocyclic 5 or preferably 6 membered heteroaryl group or a bicyclic 10 or preferably 9 membered heteroaryl group in which there is one or two e.g. two heteroatoms present selected from sulfur oxygen or preferably nitrogen so forming for example a pyrimidinyl or indazolyl group both of which are optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E 

Qrepresents heterocycloalkyl e.g. a 5 or preferably 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group containing one or two heteroatoms optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituents selected from E which may be located on a heteroatom 

More preferred compounds of the invention in particular those in which Arepresents C R Arepresents C R Arepresents N and Arepresents N include those in which 

Rrepresents Calkyl e.g. CH optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from Q but preferably unsubstituted or Rmore preferably represents hydrogen 

Rrepresents aryl e.g. phenyl optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E 

More preferred compounds of the invention in particular those in which Arepresents N Arepresents C R Arepresents C R and Arepresents N include those in which 

Rrepresents Calkyl e.g. CH optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from Q 

Rrepresents aryl e.g. phenyl or heteroaryl e.g. a monocyclic 5 or preferably 6 membered heteroaryl group in which there is one or two e.g. two heteroatoms present selected from sulfur oxygen or preferably nitrogen so forming for example a pyrimidinyl group both of which are optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E and Rpreferably represents optionally substituted monocyclic heteroaryl such as pyrimidinyl 

Qrepresents heterocycloalkyl e.g. a 5 or preferably a 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group containing one or two heteroatoms preferably selected from nitrogen and oxygen e.g. piperazinyl which is optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E 

More preferred compounds of the invention in particular those in which Arepresents N Arepresents C R Arepresents N and Arepresents C R include those in which 

Rrepresents Calkyl e.g. CH optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from Q 

Rrepresents aryl e.g. phenyl or heteroaryl e.g. a monocyclic 5 or preferably 6 membered heteroaryl group in which there is one or two e.g. two heteroatoms present selected from sulfur oxygen or preferably nitrogen so forming for example a pyrimidinyl group both of which are optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E and Rpreferably represents optionally substituted aryl such as phenyl 

Qrepresents heterocycloalkyl e.g. a 5 or preferably a 6 membered heterocycloalkyl group containing one or two heteroatoms preferably selected from nitrogen and oxygen e.g. piperazinyl which is optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E 

More preferred compounds of the invention in particular those in which Arepresents C R Arepresents C R Arepresents N and Arepresents C R include those in which 

Rrepresents Calkyl e.g. CH optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from Q but preferably unsubstituted or Rmore preferably represents hydrogen 

Rrepresents aryl e.g. phenyl optionally substituted by one or more e.g. one substituent selected from E 

Particularly preferred compounds of the invention include those of the examples described hereinafter.

Compounds of the invention may be made in accordance with techniques that are well known to those skilled in the art for example as described hereinafter.

According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a process for the preparation of a compound of formula I which process comprises 

Compounds of formula IV for example in which Arepresents C R Arepresents C R Arepresents C R and Arepresents C R in which Lrepresents e.g. chloro bromo or iodo may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XV 

Compounds of formula IV in which Lrepresents a sulfonate such as S O Calkyl e.g. S O CH may be prepared by oxidation of a compound of formula XVI 

Compounds of formula IX e.g. in which LRrepresents L may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XVII 

Compounds of formula XIV in which Lrepresents a sulfide such as SCH Lrepresents a sulfide such as SCH and Aand Aboth represent N Arepresents C R and Arepresents C R may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XX 

Compounds of formula XIV in which Lrepresents halo e.g. chloro and Lrepresents a sulfide e.g. SCH and preferably Arepresents N Arepresents C R Arepresents C R and Arepresents N may also be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XXII 

Compounds of formula XIV in which Lrepresents halo especially chloro may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XXIII 

Compounds of formula XV in which Arepresents C R and preferably Arepresents C R Arepresents N Arepresents C R and Arepresents C H further Rmay represent C O OR may also be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XXV 

Compounds of formula XV or protected derivatives thereof which includes salts e.g. a bromide salt in which Arepresents C R and preferably Arepresents N and or preferably Arepresents C R and Arepresents C R may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XXVI 

Compounds of formula XV in which Arepresents N e.g. A Aand Arespectively represent C R C R and C R and Arepresents N or Arepresents N R Arepresents C R and Aand Aboth represent N may also be prepared by intramolecular cyclisation of a compound of formula XXVIII 

Compounds of formula XV in which Ris replaced with a OH group and Arepresents N e.g. A Aand Arespectively represent C R C R and C R and Arepresents N or Arepresents N R Arepresents C R and Aand Aboth represent N may also be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XXIX 

Compounds of formula XVI may also be prepared by intramolecular reaction of a compound of formula XXXII 

Compounds of formula XIX in which Lrepresents chloro or halo may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XXXIV 

Compounds of formula XXII in which Arepresents N and preferably in which Arepresents N Arepresents C R Arepresents C R and Arepresents N may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XXXV 

Compounds of formula XXIV in which in which Arepresents C R and preferably Arepresents C R Arepresents C R Arepresents C R and Arepresents C H may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XXXVI 

wherein Lrepresents a suitable leaving group for example one hereinbefore defined in respect of L e.g. halo and preferably bromo under standard reaction conditions for example optionally in the presence of a suitable base preferably an inorganic base such as NaH KPO CsCO t BuONa t BuOK and more preferably an inorganic carbonate such as NaCOand preferably KCO and a suitable solvent e.g. an aprotic solvent such as dichloromethane or preferably acetone . The reaction may be performed at elevated temperature for example at above 100 C. e.g. at about 120 C. under microwave irradiation conditions.

Compounds of formula XXVI may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XXXVIII as hereinbefore defined or a derivative thereof e.g. an ester such as an ethyl ester with ammonia or a suitable source thereof e.g. NHCl in a solution of NHin an alcohol such as methanol .

Compounds of formula XXVIII may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XXIX as hereinbefore defined with a compound of formula XL R C O L XL wherein Lrepresents a suitable leaving group such as one hereinbefore defined by L e.g. halo such as chloro or OH or an ester thereof under standard acylation or amide coupling reaction conditions e.g. in the case of acylation the presence of an appropriate base e.g. an organic amine base such as triethylamine and an appropriate solvent e.g. pyridine dichloromethane dioxane etc or mixtures thereof or in the case of amide couplings under conditions described hereinafter or e.g. in the presence of polyphosphoric acid which advantageously may form a compound of formula XXVIII in situ which may undergo subsequent reaction to provide the compound of formula XV isoquinolinone directly .

Compounds of formula XXIX or the corresponding carboxylic acid or ester may also be prepared by amination of a compound of formula XXVI as hereinbefore defined or compounds of formula XLI may also be prepared by amination of a compound of formula XLII 

Compounds of formula XXXIX in which Lrepresents halo e.g. chloro or preferably bromo may be prepared by reaction of a compound corresponding to a compound of formula XXXIX but in which Lrepresents hydrogen with a source of halide ions e.g. such as one hereinbefore described in respect of preparation of compounds of formula I process step iii above such as N chlorosuccinimide or N bromosuccinimide under standard reaction conditions e.g. in the presence of a suitable base such as an organic base e.g. triethylamine or the like and trimethylsilylfluoromethanesulfonate or the like.

Compounds corresponding to compounds of formula XXXIX but in which Lrepresents hydrogen may themselves be prepared from compounds of formula XLIII R L XLIII in which Lrepresents a suitable leaving group such as one hereinbefore defined in respect of L e.g. halo such as chloro or preferably bromo with a compound that allows the introduction of the C O CHmoiety such as tributyl 1 ethoxyvinyl tin in the presence of a precious metal catalyst ligand e.g. dichlorobis triphenyl phosphine palladium II and a suitable solvent e.g. dimethylformamide or the like .

Compounds of formula XLI may be prepared by reaction of a compound of formula XLII as hereinbefore defined for example by reaction in the presence of base e.g. a metal hydride such as sodium hydride and an appropriate reagent for the introduction of the amino group e.g. o diphenylphosphinyl hydroxylamine or another reagent suitable for electrophilic aminations under reaction conditions such as those described hereinafter.

Other specific transformation steps including those that may be employed in order to form compounds of formula I that may be mentioned include 

 i reductions for example of a carboxylic acid or ester to either an aldehyde or an alcohol using appropriate reducing conditions e.g. C O OH or an ester thereof may be converted to a C O H or CH OH group using DIBAL and LiAlH respectively or similar chemoselective reducing agents ii reductions of an aldehyde C O H group to an alcohol group CHOH using appropriate reduction conditions such as those mentioned at point i above iii oxidations for example of a moiety containing an alcohol group e.g. CHOH to an aldehyde e.g. C O H for example in the presence of a suitable oxidising agent e.g. MnOor the like iv reductive amination of an aldehyde and an amine under appropriate reaction conditions for example in one pot procedure in the presence of an appropriate reducing agent such as a chemoselective reducing agent such as sodium cyanoborohydride or preferably sodium triacetoxyborohydride or the like.

Alternatively such reactions may be performed in two steps for example a condensation step in the presence of e.g. a dehydrating agent such as trimethyl orthoformate or MgSOor molecular sieves etc followed by a reduction step e.g. by reaction in the presence of a reducing agent such as a chemoselective one mentioned above or NaBH AlH or the like 

 v amide coupling reactions i.e. the formation of an amide from a carboxylic acid or ester thereof for example when Rrepresents C O OH or an ester thereof it may be converted to a C O N R Rgroup in which Rand Rare as hereinbefore defined and may be linked together e.g. as defined above and which reaction may e.g. when Rrepresents C O OH be performed in the presence of a suitable coupling reagent e.g. 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide or the like or in the case when Rrepresents an ester e.g. C O OCHor C O OCHCH in the presence of e.g. trimethylaluminium or alternatively the C O OH group may first be activated to the corresponding acyl halide e.g. C O Cl by treatment with oxalyl chloride thionyl chloride phosphorous pentachloride phosphorous oxychloride or the like and in all cases the relevant compound is reacted with a compound of formula HN R R in which Rand Rare as hereinbefore defined under standard conditions known to those skilled in the art e.g. optionally in the presence of a suitable solvent suitable base and or in an inert atmosphere vi conversion of a primary amide to a nitrile functional group for example under dehydration reaction conditions e.g. in the presence of POCl or the like vii nucleophilic substitution reactions where any nucleophile replaces a leaving group e.g. methylsulfonylpiperazine may replace a chloro leaving group or aromatic nucleophilic substitution reactions such as the substitution of ammonia or a protected derivative thereof e.g. a dibenzyl derivative onto an aromatic group bearing a leaving group e.g. onto a 2 chloropyrimidinyl moiety viii transformation of a methoxy group to a hydroxy group by reaction in the presence of an appropriate reagent such as boron fluoride dimethyl sulfide complex or BBr e.g. in the presence of a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane ix specific deprotection steps for example a hydroxy group protected as a silyl ether e.g. a tert butyl dimethylsilyl protecting group may be deprotected by reaction with a source of fluoride ions e.g. by employing the reagent tetrabutylammonium fluoride TBAF .

Intermediate compounds described herein are either commercially available are known in the literature or may be obtained either by analogy with the processes described herein or by conventional synthetic procedures in accordance with standard techniques from available starting materials using appropriate reagents and reaction conditions. Further processes to prepare compounds of formula I may be described in the literature for example in 

The substituents R B B B B B B B B A A Aand Ain final compounds of the invention or relevant intermediates may be modified one or more times after or during the processes described above by way of methods that are well known to those skilled in the art. Examples of such methods include substitutions reductions oxidations alkylations acylations hydrolyses esterifications etherifications halogenations or nitrations. Such reactions may result in the formation of a symmetric or asymmetric final compound of the invention or intermediate. The precursor groups can be changed to a different such group or to the groups defined in formula I at any time during the reaction sequence.

For example when substituents in the compounds of the invention e.g. represented by R B B B B B B B B A A Aand A such as COEt CHO CN and or CHCl are present these groups can be further derivatized to other fragments described e.g. by those integers mentioned above in compounds of the invention following synthetic protocols very well know to the person skilled in the art and or according to the experimental part described in the patent. Other specific transformation steps that may be mentioned include the reduction of a nitro or azido group to an amino group the hydrolysis of a nitrile group to a carboxylic acid group and standard nucleophilic aromatic substitution reactions for example in which an iodo preferably fluoro or bromo phenyl group is converted into a cyanophenyl group by employing a source of cyanide ions e.g. by reaction with a compound which is a source of cyano anions e.g. sodium copper I zinc or potassium cyanide optionally in the presence of a palladium catalyst as a reagent alternatively in this case palladium catalysed cyanation reaction conditions may also be employed .

Other transformations that may be mentioned include the conversion of a halo group preferably iodo or bromo to a 1 alkynyl group e.g. by reaction with a 1 alkyne which latter reaction may be performed in the presence of a suitable coupling catalyst e.g. a palladium and or a copper based catalyst and a suitable base e.g. a tri Calkyl amine such as triethylamine tributylamine or ethyldiisopropylamine the introduction of amino groups and hydroxy groups in accordance with standard conditions using reagents known to those skilled in the art the conversion of an amino group to a halo azido or a cyano group for example via diazotisation e.g. generated in situ by reaction with NaNOand a strong acid such as HCl or HSO at low temperature such as at 00 C. or below e.g. at about 5 C. followed by reaction with the appropriate nucleophile e.g. a source of the relevant anions for example by reaction in the presence of a halogen gas e.g. bromine iodine or chlorine or a reagent that is a source of azido or cyanide anions such as NaNor NaCN the conversion of C O OH to a NHgroup under Schmidt reaction conditions or variants thereof for example in the presence of HN which may be formed in by contacting NaNwith a strong acid such as HSO or for variants by reaction with diphenyl phosphoryl azide PhO P O N in the presence of an alcohol such as tert butanol which may result in the formation of a carbamate intermediate the conversion of C O NHto NH for example under Hofmann rearrangement reaction conditions for example in the presence of NaOBr which may be formed by contacting NaOH and Br which may result in the formation of a carbamate intermediate the conversion of C O N which compound itself may be prepared from the corresponding acyl hydrazide under standard diazotisation reaction conditions e.g. in the presence of NaNOand a strong acid such as HSOor HCl to NH for example under Curtius rearrangement reaction conditions which may result in the formation of an intermediate isocyanate or a carbamate if treated with an alcohol the conversion of an alkyl carbamate to NH by hydrolysis for example in the presence of water and base or under acidic conditions or when a benzyl carbamate intermediate is formed under hydrogenation reaction conditions e.g. catalytic hydrogenation reaction conditions in the presence of a precious metal catalyst such as Pd halogenation of an aromatic ring for example by an electrophilic aromatic substitution reaction in the presence of halogen atoms e.g. chlorine bromine etc or an equivalent source thereof and if necessary an appropriate catalyst Lewis acid e.g. AlClor FeCl .

Compounds of the invention bearing a carboxyester functional group may be converted into a variety of derivatives according to methods well known in the art to convert carboxyester groups into carboxamides N substituted carboxamides N N disubstituted carboxamides carboxylic acids and the like. The operative conditions are those widely known in the art and may comprise for instance in the conversion of a carboxyester group into a carboxamide group the reaction with ammonia or ammonium hydroxide in the presence of a suitable solvent such as a lower alcohol dimethylformamide or a mixture thereof preferably the reaction is carried out with ammonium hydroxide in a methanol dimethylformamide mixture at a temperature ranging from about 50 C. to about 100 C. Analogous operative conditions apply in the preparation of N substituted or N N disubstituted carboxamides wherein a suitable primary or secondary amine is used in place of ammonia or ammonium hydroxide. Likewise carboxyester groups may be converted into carboxylic acid derivatives through basic or acidic hydrolysis conditions widely known in the art. Further amino derivatives of compounds of the invention may easily be converted into the corresponding carbamate carboxamido or ureido derivatives.

Compounds of the invention may be isolated from their reaction mixtures using conventional techniques e.g. recrystallisations .

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that in the processes described above and hereinafter the functional groups of intermediate compounds may need to be protected by protecting groups.

The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods and the need can be readily determined by one skilled in the art . Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc and 2 4 4 trimethylpentan 2 yl which may be deprotected by reaction in the presence of an acid e.g. HCl in water alcohol e.g. MeOH or the like. The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art.

The protection and deprotection of functional groups may take place before or after a reaction in the above mentioned schemes.

Protecting groups may be removed in accordance with techniques that are well known to those skilled in the art and as described hereinafter. For example protected compounds intermediates described herein may be converted chemically to unprotected compounds using standard deprotection techniques.

The type of chemistry involved will dictate the need and type of protecting groups as well as the sequence for accomplishing the synthesis.

The use of protecting groups is fully described in 3rd edition T. W. Greene P. G. M. Wutz Wiley Interscience 1999 .

Compounds of the invention are indicated as pharmaceuticals. According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined for use as a pharmaceutical.

Compounds of the invention may inhibit protein or lipid kinases such as a PI3 kinase especially a class I PI3K for example as may be shown in the tests described below for example the test for PI3K inhibition described below and or in tests known to the skilled person. The compounds of the invention may also inhibit mTOR. Thus the compounds of the invention may be useful in the treatment of those disorders in an individual in which the inhibition of such protein or lipid kinases e.g. PI3K particularly class I PI3K and or mTOR is desired and or required for instance compounds of the invention may inhibit PI3K particularly class I PI3K and optionally may also inhibit mTOR .

The term inhibit may refer to any measurable reduction and or prevention of catalytic kinase e.g. PI3K particularly class I PI3K and or mTOR activity. The reduction and or prevention of kinase activity may be measured by comparing the kinase activity in a sample containing a compound of the invention and an equivalent sample of kinase e.g. PI3K particularly class I PI3K and or mTOR in the absence of a compound of the invention as would be apparent to those skilled in the art. The measurable change may be objective e.g. measurable by some test or marker for example in an in vitro or in vivo assay or test such as one described hereinafter or otherwise another suitable assay or test known to those skilled in the art or subjective e.g. the subject gives an indication of or feels an effect .

Compounds of the invention may be found to exhibit 50 inhibition of a protein or lipid kinase e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K and or mTOR at a concentration of 100 M or below for example at a concentration of below 50 M or even below 10 M such as below 1 M when tested in an assay or other test for example as described hereinafter or otherwise another suitable assay or test known to the skilled person.

Compounds of the invention are thus expected to be useful in the treatment of a disorder in which a protein or lipid kinase e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K and or mTOR is known to play a role and which are characterised by or associated with an overall elevated activity of that kinase due to for example increased amount of the kinase or increased catalytic activity of the kinase . Hence compounds of the invention are expected to be useful in the treatment of a disease disorder arising from abnormal cell growth function or behaviour associated with the protein or lipid kinase e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K and or mTOR . Such conditions disorders include cancer immune disorders cardiovascular diseases viral infections inflammation metabolism endocrine function disorders and neurological disorders.

The disorders conditions that the compounds of the invention may be useful in treating hence includes cancer such as lymphomas solid tumours or a cancer as described hereinafter obstructive airways diseases allergic diseases inflammatory diseases such as asthma allergy and Chrohn s disease immunosuppression such as transplantation rejection and autoimmune diseases disorders commonly connected with organ transplantation AIDS related diseases and other associated diseases. Other associated diseases that may be mentioned particularly due to the key role of kinases in the regulation of cellular proliferation include other cell proliferative disorders and or non malignant diseases such as benign prostate hyperplasia familial adenomatosis polyposis neuro fibromatosis psoriasis bone disorders atherosclerosis vascular smooth cell proliferation associated with atherosclerosis pulmonary fibrosis arthritis glomerulonephritis and post surgical stenosis and restenosis. Other disease states that may be mentioned include cardiovascular disease stroke diabetes hepatomegaly Alzheimer s disease cystic fibrosis hormone related diseases immunodeficiency disorders destructive bone disorders infectious diseases conditions associated with cell death thrombin induced platelet aggregation chronic myelogenous leukaemia liver disease pathologic immune conditions involving T cell activation and CNS disorders.

As stated above the compounds of the invention may be useful in the treatment of cancer. More specifically the compounds of the invention may therefore be useful in the treatment of a variety of cancer including but not limited to carcinoma such as cancer of the bladder breast colon kidney liver lung including non small cell cancer and small cell lung cancer esophagus gall bladder ovary pancreas stomach cervix thyroid prostate skin squamous cell carcinoma testis genitourinary tract larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma keratoacanthoma epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone adenoma adenocarcinoma follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papilliary carcinoma seminona melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma myeloid disorders lymphoid disorders hairy cells buccal cavity and pharynx oral lip tongue mouth pharynx small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s and leukaemia hematopoietic tumors of lymphoid lineage including leukemia acute lymphocitic leukemia acute lymphoblastic leukemia B cell lymphoma T cell lymphoma Hodgkin s lymphoma non Hodgkin s lymphoma hairy cell lymphoma and Burkett s lymphoma hematopoietic tumors of myeloid lineage including acute and chronic myelogenous leukemias myelodysplastic syndrome and promyelocytic leukemia tumors of mesenchymal origin including fibrosarcoma and rhabdomyosarcoma tumors of the central and peripheral nervous system including astrocytoma neuroblastoma glioma and schwannomas and other tumors including melanoma seminoma teratocarcinoma osteosarcoma xeroderma pigmentosum keratoxanthoma thyroid follicular cancer and Kaposi s sarcoma.

Further the protein or lipid kinases e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K and or mTOR may also be implicated in the multiplication of viruses and parasites. They may also play a major role in the pathogenesis and development of neurodegenerative disorders. Hence compounds of the invention may also be useful in the treatment of viral conditions parasitic conditions as well as neurodegenerative disorders.

Compounds of the invention are indicated both in the therapeutic and or prophylactic treatment of the above mentioned conditions.

According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of treatment of a disease e.g. cancer or another disease as mentioned herein which is associated with the inhibition of protein or lipid kinase e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K and or mTOR i.e. where such inhibition is desired and or required for example a method of treatment of a disease disorder arising from abnormal cell growth function or behaviour associated with protein or lipid kinases e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K and or mTOR which method comprises administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined to a patient suffering from or susceptible to such a condition.

 Patients include mammalian including human patients. Hence the method of treatment discussed above may include the treatment of a human or animal body.

The term effective amount refers to an amount of a compound which confers a therapeutic effect on the treated patient. The effect may be objective e.g. measurable by some test or marker or subjective e.g. the subject gives an indication of or feels an effect .

Compounds of the invention may be administered orally intravenously subcutaneously buccally rectally dermally nasally tracheally bronchially sublingually by any other parenteral route or via inhalation in a pharmaceutically acceptable dosage form.

Compounds of the invention may be administered alone but are preferably administered by way of known pharmaceutical formulations including tablets capsules or elixirs for oral administration suppositories for rectal administration sterile solutions or suspensions for parenteral or intramuscular administration and the like. The type of pharmaceutical formulation may be selected with due regard to the intended route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice. Such pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may be chemically inert to the active compounds and may have no detrimental side effects or toxicity under the conditions of use.

Such formulations may be prepared in accordance with standard and or accepted pharmaceutical practice. Otherwise the preparation of suitable formulations may be achieved non inventively by the skilled person using routine techniques and or in accordance with standard and or accepted pharmaceutical practice.

According to a further aspect of the invention there is thus provided a pharmaceutical formulation including a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant diluent and or carrier.

Depending on e.g. potency and physical characteristics of the compound of the invention i.e. active ingredient pharmaceutical formulations that may be mentioned include those in which the active ingredient is present in at least 1 or at least 10 at least 30 or at least 50 by weight. That is the ratio of active ingredient to the other components i.e. the addition of adjuvant diluent and carrier of the pharmaceutical composition is at least 1 99 or at least 10 90 at least 30 70 or at least 50 50 by weight.

The amount of compound of the invention in the formulation will depend on the severity of the condition and on the patient to be treated as well as the compound s which is are employed but may be determined non inventively by the skilled person.

The invention further provides a process for the preparation of a pharmaceutical formulation as hereinbefore defined which process comprises bringing into association a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined or a pharmaceutically acceptable ester amide solvate or salt thereof with a pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant diluent or carrier.

Compounds of the invention may also be combined with other therapeutic agents that are inhibitors of protein or lipid kinases e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K a PIM family kinase e.g. PIM 1 PIM 2 and or PIM 3 and or mTOR and or useful in the treatment of a cancer and or a proliferative disease. Compounds of the invention may also be combined with other therapies e.g. radiation .

For instance compounds of the invention may be combined with one or more treatments independently selected from surgery one or more anti cancer anti neoplastic anti tumoral agent one or more hormone therapies one or more antibodies one or more immunotherapies radioactive iodine therapy and radiation.

More specifically compounds of the invention may be combined with an agent that modulates the Ras Raf Mek pathway e.g. an inhibitor of MEK the Jak Stat pathway e.g. an inhibitor of Jak the PI3K Akt pathway e.g. an inhibitor of Akt the DNA damage response mechanism e.g. an inhibitor of ATM or ATR or the stress signaling pathway an inhibitor of p38 or NF KB .

Such combination products provide for the administration of a compound of the invention in conjunction with the other therapeutic agent and may thus be presented either as separate formulations wherein at least one of those formulations comprises a compound of the invention and at least one comprises the other therapeutic agent or may be presented i.e. formulated as a combined preparation i.e. presented as a single formulation including a compound of the invention and the other therapeutic agent .

 1 a pharmaceutical formulation including a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined another therapeutic agent that is useful in the treatment of cancer and or a proliferative disease and a pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant diluent or carrier and 2 a kit of parts comprising components 

In a particularly preferred aspect of the invention compounds of the invention may be combined with other therapeutic agents e.g. chemotherapeutic agents for use as medicaments e.g. for use in the treatment of a disease or condition as mentioned herein such as one in which the inhibition of growth of cancer cells are required and or desired e.g. for treating hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer e.g. specific cancers that may be mentioned herein e.g. in the examples in mammals especially humans . Such active ingredients in combinations may act in synergy.

In particular compounds of the invention may be combined with known chemotherapeutic agents as may be demonstrated by the examples for instance where a compound of the examples is employed in combination and inhibits cellular proliferation in vitro in particular such combinations may be useful in treating lung and or ovarian cancer for instance 

The MEK inhibitor PD 0325901 CAS RN 391210 10 9 Pfizer is a second generation non ATP competitive allosteric MEK inhibitor for the potential oral tablet treatment of cancer U.S. Pat. No. 6 960 614 U.S. Pat. No. 6 972 298 US 2004 1147478 US 2005 085550 . Phase II clinical trials have been conducted for the potential treatment of breast tumors colon tumors and melanoma. PD 0325901 is named R N 2 3 dihydroxypropoxy 3 4 difluoro 2 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino benz amide and has the structure 

Docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis is used to treat breast ovarian and NSCLC cancers U.S. Pat. No. 4 814 470 U.S. Pat. No. 5 438 072 U.S. Pat. No. 5 698 582 U.S. Pat. No. 5 714 512 U.S. Pat. No. 5 750 561 Mangatal et al 1989 Tetrahedron 45 4177 Ringel et al 1991 J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 83 288 Bissery et al 1991 Cancer Res. 51 4845 Herbst et al 2003 Cancer Treat. Rev. 29 407 415 Davies et al 2003 Expert. Opin. Pharmacother. 4 553 565 . Docetaxel is named as 2R 3S N carboxy 3 phenylisoserine N tert butyl ester 13 ester with 5 20 epoxy 1 2 4 7 10 13 hexahydroxytax 11 en 9 one 4 acetate 2 benzoate trihydrate U.S. Pat. No. 4 814 470 EP 253738 CAS Reg. No. 114977 28 5 or named as 1 7 10 trihydroxy 9 oxo 5 20 epoxytax 11 ene 2 4 13 triyl 4 acetate 2 benzoate 13 2R 3S 3 tert butoxycarbonyl amino 2 hydroxy 3 phenylpropanoate and has the structure 

Lapatinib TYKERB GW572016 Glaxo SmithKline has been approved for use in combination with capecitabine XELODA Roche for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer whose tumors over express HER2 ErbB2 and who have received prior therapy including an anthracycline a taxane and trastuzumab. Lapatinib is an ATP competitive epidermal growth factor EGFR and HER2 neu ErbB 2 dual tyrosine kinase inhibitor U.S. Pat. No. 6 727 256 U.S. Pat. No. 6 713 485 U.S. Pat. No. 7 109 333 U.S. Pat. No. 6 933 299 U.S. Pat. No. 7 084 147 U.S. Pat. No. 7 157 466 U.S. Pat. No. 7 141 576 which inhibits receptor autophosphorylation and activation by binding to the ATPbinding pocket of the EGFRIHER2 protein kinase domain. Lapatinib is named as N 3 chloro 4 3 fluorobenzyloxy phenyl 6 5 2 methylsulfonyl ethylamino methyl furan 2 yl quinazolin 4 amine or alternatively named as N 3 chloro 4 3 fluorophenyl methoxy phenyl 6 5 2 methylsulfonylethylamino methyl 2 furyl quinazolin 4 amine and has the structure 

The invention further provides a process for the preparation of a combination product as hereinbefore defined which process comprises bringing into association a compound of the invention as hereinbefore defined or a pharmaceutically acceptable ester amide solvate or salt thereof with the other therapeutic agent that is useful in the treatment of cancer and or a proliferative disease and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvant diluent or carrier.

For instance compounds of the invention may be combined with a chemotherapeutic agent. A chemotherapeutic agent is a biological large molecule or chemical small molecule compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Classes of chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites spindle poison plant alkaloids cytotoxic antitumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors proteins antibodies photosensitizers and kinase inhibitors. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and non targeted conventional chemotherapy.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include those mentioned in e.g. WO 2010 105008 for instance dexamethasone thioTEPA doxorubicin vincristine rituximab cyclophosphamide prednisone melphalan lenalidomide bortezomib rapamycin and cytarabine.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents also include erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. docetaxel TAXOTERE Sanofi Aventis 5 FU fluorouracil 5 fluorouracil CAS No. 51 21 8 gemcitabine GEMZAR Lilly PD 0325901 CAS No. 391210 10 9 Pfizer cisplatin cis diamine dichloroplatinum II CAS No. 15663 27 1 carboplatin CAS No. 41575 94 4 paclitaxel TAXOL Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology temozolomide 4 methyl 5 oxo 2 3 4 6 8 pentazabicyclo 4.3.0 nona 2 7 9 triene 9 carboxamide CAS No. 85622 93 1 TEMODAR TEMODAL Schering Plough tamoxifen Z 2 4 1 2 diphenylbut 1 enyl phenoxy N N dimethyl ethanamine NOLVADEX ISTUBAL VALODEX doxorubicin ADRIAMYCIN Akti 1 2 HPPD rapamycin and lapatinib TYKERB Glaxo SmithKline .

More examples of chemotherapeutic agents include oxaliplatin ELOXATIN Sanofi bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. sutent SUNITINIB SU11248 Pfizer letrozole FEMARA Novartis imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis XL 518 MEK inhibitor Exelixis WO 2007 044515 ARRY 886 MEK inhibitor AZD6244 Array BioPharma Astra Zeneca SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis ABT 869 multi targeted inhibitor of VEGF and PDGF family receptor tyrosine kinases Abbott Laboratories and Genentech ABT 263 Bcl 2 Bcl xL inhibitor Abbott Laboratories and Genentech PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca leucovorin folinic acid lonafamib SARASAR SCH 66336 Schering Plough sorafenib NEXAVAR BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca irinotecan CAMPTOSAR CPT 11 Pfizer tipifarnib ZARNESTRA Johnson Johnson capecitabine XELODA Roche ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg I1 vandetanib rINN ZD6474 ZACTIMA AstraZeneca chloranmbucil AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen temsirolimus TORISEL Wyeth pazopanib GlaxoSmithKline canfosfamide TELCYTA Telik thioTepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN NEOSAR alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin calicheamicin gamma II calicheamicin omega II dynemicin dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone antiadrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfomithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid tiaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thioTepa 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylomithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i antihormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors such as MEK inhibitors WO 2007 044515 v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation for example PKC alpha Raf and H Ras such as oblimersen GENASENSE Genta Inc. vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKN rIL 2 topoisomerase 1 inhibitors such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG rhuMab 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanised monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with the PI3K inhibitors of the invention include alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab rolizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

By bringing into association we mean that the two components are rendered suitable for administration in conjunction with each other.

Thus in relation to the process for the preparation of a kit of parts as hereinbefore defined by bringing the two components into association with each other we include that the two components of the kit of parts may be 

 i provided as separate formulations i.e. independently of one another which are subsequently brought together for use in conjunction with each other in combination therapy or

 ii packaged and presented together as separate components of a combination pack for use in conjunction with each other in combination therapy.

Depending on the disorder and the patient to be treated as well as the route of administration compounds of the invention may be administered at varying therapeutically effective doses to a patient in need thereof. However the dose administered to a mammal particularly a human in the context of the present invention should be sufficient to effect a therapeutic response in the mammal over a reasonable timeframe. One skilled in the art will recognize that the selection of the exact dose and composition and the most appropriate delivery regimen will also be influenced by inter alia the pharmacological properties of the formulation the nature and severity of the condition being treated and the physical condition and mental acuity of the recipient as well as the potency of the specific compound the age condition body weight sex and response of the patient to be treated and the stage severity of the disease.

Administration may be continuous or intermittent e.g. by bolus injection . The dosage may also be determined by the timing and frequency of administration. In the case of oral or parenteral administration the dosage can vary from about 0.01 mg to about 1000 mg per day of a compound of the invention.

In any event the medical practitioner or other skilled person will be able to determine routinely the actual dosage which will be most suitable for an individual patient. The above mentioned dosages are exemplary of the average case there can of course be individual instances where higher or lower dosage ranges are merited and such are within the scope of this invention.

Compounds of the invention may have the advantage that they are effective inhibitors of protein or lipid kinases e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K and or mTOR hence they may advantageously be dual inhibitors . Advantegously compounds of the invention may inhibit e.g. selectively certain protein or lipid kinases e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K without exhibiting inhibition or significant inhibition of other protein or lipid kinases. For instance the compounds of the invention may selectively inhibit only one protein or lipid kinase e.g. PI3K such as class I PI3K .

Compounds of the invention may also have the advantage that they may be more efficacious than be less toxic than be longer acting than be more potent than produce fewer side effects than be more easily absorbed than and or have a better pharmacokinetic profile e.g. higher oral bioavailability and or lower clearance than and or have other useful pharmacological physical or chemical properties over compounds known in the prior art whether for use in the above stated indications or otherwise.

Determination of the activity of PI3 kinase activity of compounds of the invention is possible by a number of direct and indirect detection methods. Certain exemplary compounds described herein were prepared characterized and tested for their PI3K binding activity and in vitro activity against tumor cells. The range of PI3K binding activities was less than 1 nM to about 10 M i.e. certain compounds of the examples invention had PI3K binding activity ICvalues of less than 10 nM . Compounds of the examples invention had tumor cell based activity ICvalues less than 100 nM see Tables below .

The kinase activity was measured by using the commercial ADP Hunter Plus assay available from DiscoveR 33 016 which is a homogeneous assay to measure the accumulation of ADP a universal product of kinase activity. The enzyme PI3K p110 p85 was purchased from Carna Biosciences 07CBS 0402A . The assay was done following the manufacturer recommendations with slight modifications Mainly the kinase buffer was replace by 50 mM HEPES pH 7.5 3 mM MgCl 100 mM NaCl 1 mM EGTA 0.04 CHAPS 2 mM TCEP and 0.01 mg ml BGG. The PI3K was assayed in a titration experiment to determine the optimal protein concentration for the inhibition assay. To calculate the ICof the ETP compounds serial 1 5 dilutions of the compounds were added to the enzyme at a fixed concentration 2.5 g ml. The enzyme was preincubated with the inhibitor and 30 M PIPsubstrate P9763 Sigma for 5 min and then ATP was added to a final 50 M concentration. Reaction was carried out for 1 hour at 25 C. Reagent A and B were sequentially added to the wells and plates were incubated for 30 min at 37 C. Fluorescence counts were read in a Victor instrument Perkin Elmer with the recommended settings 544 and 580 nm as excitation and emission wavelengths respectively . Values were normalized against the control activity included for each enzyme i.e. 100 PI3 kinase activity without compound . These values were plot against the inhibitor concentration and were fit to a sigmoid dose response curve by using the Graphad software.

The cell lines were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection ATCC . U20S human osteosarcoma was cultured in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DMEM . PC3 human prostate carcinoma MCF7 human breast cardinoma HCT116 human colon carcinoma 768 0 human neuroblastoma U251 human glyoblastoma were grown in RPMI. All media were supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum FBS Sigma and antibiotics antimycotics. Cell were maintained in a humidified incubator at 37 C. with 5 COand passaged when confluent using trypsin EDTA.

The U2nesRELOC assay and the U2foxRELOC assay have been described previously 1 2 . Briefly cells were seeded at a density of 1.0 10cells ml into black wall clear bottom 96 well microplates BD Biosciences After incubation at 37 C. with 5 COfor 12 hours 2 l of each test compound were transferred from the mother plates to the assay plates. Cells were incubated in the presence of the compounds for one hour. Then cells were fixed and the nucleus stained with DAPI Invitrogen . Finally the plates were washed with 1 PBS twice and stored at 4 C. before analysis. Compounds of the invention have a range of in vitro cell potency activities from about 1 nM to about 10 M.

Assay plates were read on the BD Pathway 855 Bioimager equipped with a 488 10 nm EGFP excitation filter a 380 10 nm DAPI excitation filter a 515LP nm EGFP emission filter and a 435LP nm DAPI emission filter. Images were acquired in the DAPI and GFP channels of each well using 10 dry objective. The plates were exposed 0.066 ms Gain 31 to acquire DAPI images and 0.55 ms Gain 30 for GFP images.

The BD Pathway Bioimager outputs its data in standard text files. Data were imported into the data analysis software BD Image Data Explorer. The nuclear cytoplasmic Nuc Cyt ratios of fluorescence intensity were determined by dividing the fluorescence intensity of the nucleus by the cytoplasmic. A threshold ratio of greater than 1.8 was employed to define nuclear accumulation of fluorescent signal for each cell. Based on this procedure we calculated the percentage of cells per well displaying nuclear translocation or inhibition of nuclear export. Compounds that induced a nuclear accumulation of the fluorescent signal greater than 60 of that obtained from wells treated with 4 nM LMB were considered as hits. In order to estimate the quality of the HCS assay the Z factor was calculated by the equation Z 1 3 std. dev. of positive controls 3 std. dev. of negative controls mean of positive controls mean of negative controls .

Subconfluent cells were incubated under different conditions and washed twice with TBS prior to lysis. Lysis buffer was added containing 50 mM Tris HCl 150 mM NaCl 1 NP 40 2 mM NaVO 100 mM NaF 20 mM NaPOand protease inhibitor cocktail Roche Molecular Biochemicals . The proteins were resolved on 10 SDS PAGE and transferred to nitrocellulose membrane Schleicher Schuell Dassel Germany . The membranes were incubated overnight at 4 C. with antibodies specific for Akt phospho Ser 473 Akt Cell Signaling Technology and tubulin Sigma they were washed and then incubated with IRDye800 conjugated anti mouse and Alexa Fluor 680 goat anti rabbit IgG secondary antibodies. The bands were visualized using an Odyssey infrared imaging system Li Cor Biosciences . Compounds of the invention have a range of in vitro cell potency activities from about 1 nM to about 10 M.

The compounds were tested on 96 well trays. Cells growing in a flask were harvested just before they became confluent counted using a haemocytometer and diluted down with media adjusting the concentration to the required number of cells per 0.2 ml volume for each well . Cells were then seeded in 96 well trays at a density between 1000 and 4000 cells well depending of the cell size. Cells were left to plate down and grow for 24 hours before adding the drugs. Drugs were weighed out and diluted with DMSO to get them into solution to a concentration of 10 mM. From here a mother plate with serial dilutions was prepared at 200 the final concentration in the culture. The final concentration of DMSO in the tissue culture media should not exceed 0.5 . The appropriate volume of the compound solution usually 2 microliters was added automatically Beckman FX 96 tip to media to make it up to the final concentration for each drug. The medium was removed from the cells and replaced with 0.2 ml of medium dosed with drug. Each concentration was assayed in triplicate. Two sets of control wells were left on each plate containing either medium without drug or medium with the same concentration of DMSO. A third control set was obtained with the cells untreated just before adding the drugs seeding control number of cells starting the culture . Cells were exposed to the drugs for 72 hours and then processed for MTT colorimetric read out. Compounds of the invention have a range of in vitro cell potency activities from about 1 nM to about 10 M.

Mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR was assayed by monitoring phosphorylation of GFP 4EBP using a homogeneous time resolved fluorescence resonante energy transfer format and assay reagents from Invitrogen. In the presence of 10 M ATP 50 mM Hepes pH 7.5 0.01 v v Polysorbate 20 10 mM MnCl 1 mM EGTA and 2.5 mM DTT the mTOR mediated phosphorylation of 200 nM GFP 4E BP1 was measured under initial rate conditions. After incubation at room temperature for 60 min the reaction was terminated by addition of 10 mM EDTA and phosphorylated GFP 4E BP1 was detected with 2 nM Tb anti p4E BP1 antibody before reading on a Perkin Elmer Wallac 1420 Fluorescence Reader exc 340 em 490 520 .

Activity is measured as endogenous levels of phospho Aktl Ser473 protein. Osteosarcoma U2OS cells are plated in 96 Poly D Lysine coating tissue culture plates 18.000 cells well . After the treatment with serial dilutions of the compound during 3 h the cells are fixed directly in the wells with 4 paraformaldehyde.

After fixing individual wells go through the same series of steps used for a conventional immunoblot including blocking with 5 BSA incubation with 1 1000 of primary antibody AKT Ser 74 in PBS containing 5 BSA at 4 C. overnight Cell Signalling washing and incubation with second antibody HRP anti mouse IgG for 1 h at RT Amersham . After the addition of SuperSignal ELISA Femto maximum sensitivity chemiluminescent substrate Pierce the results are read using a luminescence plate reader Victor .

Cells were seeded at 10000 50000 cells well in 96 plates for 16 h. On day two nine serial 1 3 compound dilutions were made in DMSO in a 96 well plate. The compounds were added to duplicate wells in 96 well cell plates a using a FX BECKMAN robot Beckman Coulter and incubated at 37 C. with COatmosphere. After 3 days relative numbers of viable cells were measured by MTT Sigma according to manufacturer s instruction and read on EndVision Perkin Elmer . ECvalues were calculated using Activityl ase from IDBS. Drugs in combination assays were dosed starting at 4 ECconcentrations and continuing with serial dilutions 1 2. PI3K inhibitors and chemotherapeutic agents were added simultaneously.

The individual measured ECvalues against the particular cell of the exemplary compounds and of the chemotherapeutic agent are compared to the combination ECvalue. The combination Index CI score is calculated by the Chou and Talalay method CalcuSyn software Biosoft . A CI less 0.8 indicates synergy. A CI between 0.8 and 1.2 indicates additivity. A CI greater than 1.2 indicates antagonism.

The invention is illustrated by way of the following examples in which the following abbreviations or chemical symbols may be employed dba dibenzylidene acetone DCM dichloromethane MeOH methanol EtOH ethanol THF tetrahydrofuran DMF dimethylformamide CHCl chloroform DME dimethoxyethane EtO diethyl ether Hex hexane EtOAc ethyl acetate Pd PPh tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium KOAc potassium acetate DIPEA diisopropylethylamine Pd PPh tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium Pd dppf Cl.DCM 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II dichloride dichloromethane min. minutes and h. hours.

The HPLC measurement was performed using a HP 1100 from Agilent Technologies comprising a pump binary with degasser an autosampler a column oven a diode array detector DAD and a column as specified in the respective methods below. Flow from the column was split to a MS spectrometer. The MS detector was configured with an electrospray ionization source or API APCI. Nitrogen was used as the nebulizer gas. The source temperature was maintained at 150 C. Data acquisition was performed with ChemStation LC MSD quad software.

Reversed phase HPLC was carried out on a RP C18 Gemini column 150 4.6 mm 5 um 10 min. linear gradient of 50 100 acetonitrile in water 100 acetonitrile in water 2 min 210 nm and 254 or DAD.

Reversed phase HPLC was carried out on a Gemini NX C18 100 2.0 mm 5 m Solvent A water with 0.1 formic acid Solvent B acetonitrile with 0.1 formic acid. Gradient 5 of B to 100 of B within 8 min at 50 C. DAD.

Reversed phase HPLC was carried out on a Gemini NX C18 100 2.0 mm 5 um Solvent A water with 0.1 formic acid Solvent B acetonitrile with 0.1 formic acid. Gradient 5 of B to 40 of B within 8 min at 50 C. DAD.

Reversed phase HPLC was carried out on a Gemini NX C18 100 2.0 mm 5 um Solvent A water with 0.1 formic acid Solvent B acetonitrile with 0.1 formic acid. Gradient 0 of B to 30 of B within 8 min at 50 C. DAD.

Rt means retention time in minutes M H means the protonated mass of the compound method refers to the method used for LC MS.

Biological activity in PI3K see biological test above for certain examples is represented in Tables 3 4 by quantative results IC50 M .

To a solution of 2 amino 5 bromo 3 morpholin 4 ylpyrazine CAS 117719 17 2 5 g 19.297 mmol 1 eq. in DCM 250 mL o mesitylsulfonyl hydroxylamine CAS 36016 40 7 4.154 g 19.297 mmol 1 eq. was added. The mixture was stirred at rt for 18 h. The solid was filtered and dried yielding 8 g of desired compound intermediate I 1 87 .

To a solution of intermediate I 1 200 mg 0.422 mmol 1 eq. in 4 mL of dry DCM DBU 0.189 mL 1.265 mmol 3 eq. and chloroacetaldehyde 0.268 mL 4.216 mmol 10 eq. were added and the mixture was stirred at rt in an open tube for 18 h. The solvent was evaporated to dryness. The residue was treated with MeOH and the resulting solid was filtered off and dried. Yield 760 mg of desired compound 54 intermediate I 2.

To a solution of 2 4 6 trimethyl benzenesulfonic acid with 3 5 dibromo 2 imino 1 2H pyrazinamine 1 1 CAS 785051 30 1 0.200 g 0.549 mmol 1 eq. in 2 mL of dry DCM morpholine 0.144 mL 1.648 mmol 3 eq. was added. The mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h and the solvent was evaporated to dryness. The residue was taken up into EtOH 2 mL and chloroacetaldehyde 1 mL and DBU 0.328 mL 2.198 mmol 4 eq. were added and the mixture was stirred for 18 h at rt. The solvent was evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by using a sep pack in a manifold hexane EtOAc 2 1. The desired fractions were collected and the solvent evaporated. Yield 27 mg 15 of intermediate I 2.

To a solution of 2 4 6 trimethyl benzenesulfonic acid with 3 5 dibromo 2 imino 1 2H pyrazinamine 1 1 CAS 785051 30 1 100 mg 0.275 mmol 1 eq. in 4 mL of dry DCM morpholine 0.120 mL 1.374 mmol 5 eq. was added. The mixture was stirred at RT for 1 h. Then DBU 0.205 mL 1.374 mmol 5 eq. and acetaldehyde 0.308 mL 5.494 mmol 20 eq. were added and the mixture was stirred at rt in an open tube for 18 h. The solvent was evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by using a sep pack in a manifold hexane EtOAc 5 1. The desired fractions were collected and the solvent evaporated. Yield 17 mg 20 of intermediate I 9.

To a solution of 2 4 6 trimethyl benzenesulfonic acid with 3 5 dibromo 2 imino 1 2H pyrazinamine 1 1 CAS 785051 30 1 100 mg in 2 mL of dry DCM morpholine 0.120 mL was added. The mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h. Then tetrahydropyranecarboxaldehyde 0.627 mg 20 eq. and DBU 0.205 mL 5 eq. were added and the mixture was stirred at rt in an open tube for 18 h. The solvent was evaporated to dryness. The residue from the two batches was purified in cyclohexane EtOAc 5 1 to obtain the expected product as intermediate I 10.

To a solution of 2 4 6 trimethyl benzenesulfonic acid with 3 5 dibromo 2 imino 1 2H pyrazinamine 1 1 CAS 785051 30 1 200 mg 0.549 mmol 1 eq. in 4 mL of dry DCM morpholine 0.240 mL 2.747 mmol 5 eq. was added. The mixture was stirred at RT for 1 h. Then DBU 0.246 mL 1.648 mmol 3 eq. and paraformaldehyde 330 mg 2.74 mmol 5 eq. were added and the mixture was stirred in an open tube for 18 h at rt. After evaporation the five reactions were purified together by using a sep pack in a manifold eluent cyclohexane AcOEt 5 1 the desired fractions were collected and the solvent was evaporated. Yield 57 mg 7 .

To a solution of morpholine 2.4 mL 27.47 mmol 10 eq. in 75 mL of dry DCM at 0 C. under N NaH 604 mg 15.1 mmol 5.5 eq. was added. The mixture was stirred at rt for 10 min. then 2 4 6 trimethyl benzenesulfonic acid with 3 5 dibromo 2 imino 1 2H pyrazinamine 1 1 CAS 785051 30 1 1 g 2.74 mmol 1 eq. was added portionwise. The mixture was stirred for 2 h at rt. Then tert butyldimethylsilyloxyacetaldehyde 0.628 mL 3.29 mmol 1.2 eq. was added and the reaction was stirred at rt for 20 h. Water was added. The organic phase was separated dried NaSO filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified in the biotage Hexane AcOEt. The desired fractions were collected and evaporated. Yield 80 mg of intermediate I 4 7 and 150 mg of intermediate 5 8 Morpholin 4 yl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine Y 19 .

A solution of intermediate I 4 80 mg 0.187 mmol 1 eq. in tetrabutylammonium fluoride 2.8 mL 2.8 mmol 15 eq. was stirred at rt for 1 h. The solvent was evaporated to dryness the residue was used in the next reaction step without further purification as intermediate I 6.

A mixture of intermediate I 6 0.187 mmol 1 eq. and manganese dioxide 276 mg 3.179 mmol 17 eq. in chloroform 4 mL was stirred at reflux for 20 h. After filtration through dicalite the solvent was evaporated to dryness. The residue was used in the next reaction step without further purification as intermediate I 7.

To a solution of intermediate I 5 90 mg 0.317 mmol 1 eq. in THF 2 mL at 78 C. LDA 0.352 mL 1.8 M in hexanes 0.634 mmol 2 eq. was added. After 1 h DMF 1 mL was added and the mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 1 h a saturated solution of CINHwas added at 78 C. and AcOEt was added. After the mixture was allowed to warm to rt the organic phase was separated dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to dryness the residue was used in the next step without further purification as intermediate I 7.

A mixture of intermediate I 7 0.187 mmol 1 eq. 1 methylsulfonyl piperazine 40 mg 0.243 mmol 1.3 eq. and trimethyl orthoformate 0.205 mL 1.87 mmol 10 eq. in DCE 4 mL was stirred at rt for 4 h. Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 48 mg 0.224 mmol 1.2 eq. was added to the reaction mixture and it was stirred at rt for 16 h. Water was added and the reaction was extracted with DCM. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by using a sep pack in a manifold DCM MeOH 96 4. The desired fractions were collected yielding 48 mg of intermediate I 8

To a solution of intermediate I 7 0.317 mmol 1 eq. in THF 4 mL at 0 C. methylmagnesium chloride 3M in THF 1.05 mL 3.17 mmol 10 eq. was added. The mixture was stirred at rt for 1 h. NHCl aq. sat. was added and the mixture was extracted with AcOEt. The organic phase was separated dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residue was used in the next step without further purification.

To a mixture of intermediate I 8 48 mg 0.104 mmol 1 eq. indazole 4 boronic acid hydrochloride 27 mg 0.136 mmol 1.3 eq. and PdCl dppf 9 mg 0.010 mmol 0.1 eq. in DME 1 ml a saturated solution of potassium carbonate 0.1 ml was added. The mixture was heated at 130 C. under microwave irradiation for 30 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and water was added. After filtration through dicalite the organic phase was separated dried NaSO and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by using a sep pack in a manifold DCM MeOH 92 8. The desired fractions were collected and the solvent was evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by HPLC. Yielding 13 mg 25 .

To a mixture of intermediate I 8 45 mg 0.098 mmol 1 eq. 2 aminopyrimidine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester 28 mg 0.127 mmol 1.3 eq. and PdCl dppf 8 mg 0.01 mmol 0.1 eq. in DME 2 ml a saturated solution of potassium carbonate 0.2 ml was added. The mixture was heated at 130 C. under microwave irradiation for 1 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and water was added. After filtration through dicalite the organic phase was separated dried NaSO and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by CCTLC in a chromatotron DCM MeOH 92 8. The desired fractions were collected and the solvent was evaporated to dryness. The residue was treated with CHCN EtO filtered and dried. Yield 10 mg 21 of compound 2 3.

To a mixture of intermediate I 9 17 mg 0.057 mmol 1 eq. 2 aminopyrimidine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester 16 mg 0.074 mmol 1.3 eq. and PdCl dppf 5 mg 0.006 mmol 0.1 eq. in DME 1 ml a saturated solution of potassium carbonate 0.1 ml was added. The mixture was heated at 130 C. under microwave irradiation for 1 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and water was added. After filtration through dicalite the organic phase was separated dried NaSO and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by CCTLC in a chromatotron eluent DCM MeOH 92 8. The desired fractions were collected and the solvent was evaporated. Yield 17 mg 40 of compound 2 1.

To a reaction mixture of intermediate I 10 100 mg 2 aminopyrimidine boronate 72 mg and PdCl dppf 22 mg in DME 2 ml was added a saturated solution of potassium carbonate 1 ml . The mixture was heated at 130 C. under microwave irradiation for 30 min. The mixture was filtered through celite the filtrate was extracted with water. The organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and evaporated. The residue was precipitated with MeOH and washed with EtO to obtain impure final compound which was purified by sep pack chromatography in DCM MeOH 100 to 98 2 to obtain 5 mg of a white solid after liophilization as final product 2 14.

Final compound 2 3 0.434 mmol 1 eq was suspended in DCM 4.3 mL and NCS 58 mg 0.434 mmol 1 eq was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 20 h. The suspension was concentrated and the residue was purified by biotage eluent cyclohexane EtOAc 100 0 to 60 40 to obtain final product 2 17 as a white solid 120 mg 55 .

A solution of intermediate I 19 25 mg 0.056 mmol 1 eq. in tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.847 mL 0.847 mmol 15 eq. was stirred at rt for 1 h. The solvent was evaporated to dryness the residue was treated with MeOH the solid was filtered then purified by HPLC. Yielding 3 mg Y 16 as final compound 2 11.

The following intermediate was prepared in accordance with the procedures described herein e.g. from intermediate I 4 and 2 aminopurimide 5 boronate or the corresponding boronic acid pinacol ester .

Boron fluoride dimethyl sulfide complex 0.216 mL 2.057 mmol was added to a stirred solution of final product 3 1 70 mg 0.206 mmol in DCM 1.2 mL at rt. The mixture was stirred at rt for 24 h. NaHCOsat. was added and the mixture was extracted with DCM MeOH 90 1. The organic phase was separated dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by biotage eluent DCM MeOH 100 0 to 60 40 to obtain final product 3 2 as a white solid 45 mg 67 yield .

To a stirred slurry of LiAlH 52 mg 1.360 mmol in dry THF 1 mL was slowly added intermediate II 24 5.63 mmol in THF 1.6 mL at 0 C. After the addition the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated NHCl NHOH and DCM was added. The organic layer was washed with saturated NaCl and dried over anhydrous NaSO. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude was purified by biotage eluent cyclohexane EtOAc 100 0 to 0 100 to obtain 140 mg of a white solid as final product 3 1.

Intermediate II 9 0.7 g 2.110 mmol 1 eq was dissolved in DCM 7 mL and morpholine 0.185 mL 2.110 mmol was carefully added after which a solid crashing out was observed. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 36 h. Then the solvent was evaporated and the residue was purified by biotage eluent cyclohexane EtOAc 100 0 to 60 40 to obtain 680 mg 84 yield of intermediate II 24 as a white solid.

A solution of intermediate II 8 0.100 g 0.319 mmol in phosphorus oxychloride 2 mL was heated at reflux for 2 h. The reaction mixture was poured over a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate 20 mL and the mixture was neutralised with potassium carbonate. The precipitate white solid was filtered washed with water and dried under vacuum to obtain the expected compound as intermediate II 9 which was used in next reaction step without further purification.

To a solution of intermediate II 7 0.840 g 2.914 mmol in acetic acid 37 mL ammonium acetate 1.695 g 29.136 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 3 days. The reaction mixture was poured over ice water and the mixture was neutralised with sodium carbonate. The precipitate white solid was filtered washed with cool water and dried. The solid was dissolved in DCM and washed with water. The organic phase was separated dried over NaSOand concentrated to obtain a white solid which was purified by biotage eluent cyclohexane EtOAc 100 0 to 80 20 and then DCM MeOH 100 0 to 50 50 to obtain a white solid 840 mg of intermediate II 8 61 yield .

To a solution of diethyl 3 5 pyrazoledicarboxylate 1 g 4.712 mmol in acetone 20 ml 2 bromo 3 methoxyacetophenone 1.079 g 4.712 mmol and potassium carbonate 0.716 mg 5.184 mmol were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT 12 h. The solvent was evaporated and residue was dissolved in DCM and washed with water. The organic phase was dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue a yellow oil 1.605 g 95 yield was used in the next reaction step without further purification as intermediate II 7.

To a stirred solution of product 3 3 40 mg 0.123 mmol 1 eq. in DCM 2 mL at rt boron fluoride dimethyl sulfide complex 0.129 mL 1.229 mmol 10 eq. was added. The mixture was stirred at rt for 24 h. NaHCO sat. was added and the mixture was extracted with DCM MeOH 90 10 . The organic phase was separated dried NaSO and evaporated to dryness. The residue was precipitated from MeOH EtO filtered off and dried to yield 0.036 g of final product 3 6 94 .

To a mixture of intermediate II 4 0.035 g 0.117 mmol 1 eq. 3 methoxyphenylboronic acid 21 mg 0.141 mmol 1.2 eq. and PdCl dppf 10 mg 0.012 mmol 0.1 eq. in DME 2 ml a saturated solution of potassium carbonate 0.2 ml was added. The mixture was heated at 130 C. under microwave irradiation for 15 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and water was added. The organic phase was separated dried NaSO and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by CCTLC in a chromatotron eluent DCM MeOH 96 4 the desired fractions were collected and the solvent was evaporated. Yielding final product 3 3 0.020 g Y 52 .

Final compound 3 4 was prepared following a similar synthetic route to final compound 3 8 by using indazole 4 boronic acid hydrochloride as the coupling agent CAS 1023595 17 6 and intermediate II 4. Yield 47 Final compound 3 5 was prepared following similar synthetic route to final compound 3 8 by using 2 aminopyrimidine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester as the coupling agent CAS 402960 38 7 and intermediate II 4. Yield 7 .

A mixture of intermediate II 3 1.375 mmol 1 eq. in triethyl orthoacetate 4 mL was heated at 140 C. for 2 h. The solid was filtered off and dried yielding intermediate II 4 0.035 g 8 .

Intermediate II 2 0.383 g 1.375 mmol 1 eq. and hydrazine hydrate 0.535 mL 5.5 mmol 4 eq. were dissolved in DMSO 4 mL and heated at reflux for 2 h. EtOAc and water were added. The organic phase was separated dried NaSO filtered and evaporated to dryness. The residue was taken up into CHCN and water and liophilised. The residue was used in the next step without further purification as intermediate II 3.

To a well stirred solution of intermediate II 1 0.5 g 1.930 mmol 1 eq. in DCM 5 mL cooled to 0 C. titanium IV chloride 1 M in DCM 1.93 mL 1.93 mmol 1 eq. was added in one portion. Tert butyl nitrite 0.459 mL 3.859 mmol 2 eq. is then added dropwise. The ice bath is removed and the reaction is allowed to proceed at rt. More TiCl 1 M in DCM 2.31 mL 2.31 mmol 1.2 eq. was added and the mixture was stirred for 1 h. The solid was filtered off and dried and used in the next step without further purification as intermediate II 2.

A solution of product 2 amino 3 5 dibromo 4 ylpyrazine cas 117719 17 2 40 g 158 mmol 1.0 eq in morpholine 41.5 ml 474 mmol 3.0 eq was heated at 120 C. in a parr reactor for 24 h. A brown solid appears. The solid was suspended in DCM and washed with NaCOaq. sat twice . The organic phase was dried MgSO filtered and solvent removed in vacuo to give a brown solid which was triturated from EtO to afford the desired product 30.54 g 74 as a pale brown solid as II 1.

BFMeS complex was added to a 0 C. mixture of intermediate II 25 in DCM. The reaction was stirred at rt for 48 h. MeOH was added at 00 C. and the mixture was stirred for 1 h then solvents were removed under reduced pressure additional MeOH 15 mL was added and then evaporated. The residue was treated with water and 32 NHOH until basic pH. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc x3 . Combined organic layers were washed with brine dried and evaporated.

The residue was purified on silica gel biotage DCM MeOH 5 to 10 MeOH to give final compound 3 7 17 mg. Yield 66 .

Morpholine was added to a mixture of intermediate II 26 and TEA in dioxane. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 4.5 h. Solvents were evaporated to dryness. The residue was diluted with EtOAc washed with NaHCO brine dried and evaporated. The residue was used in next reaction without further purification. Yield 100 .

A mixture of intermediate II 27 and N N dimethylaniline in phosphorus oxychloride was stirred in a sealed tube at 90 C. for 4 h. POClwas evaporated and ice was added to the residue. The mixture was extracted with CHCl x3 .

The combined organic layers were dried and evaporated. The residue was purified on silica gel biotage c Hex EtOAc 20 then 30 then 50 EtOAc to give intermediate II 26 23 mg yield 21 .

A mixture of intermediate II 28 and t BuOK in t BuOH was heated at 160 C. in a sealed vessel for 24 h then it was stirred at rt for 2 3 days. The reaction mixture was heated at 16000 for additional 24 h. After cooling down to rt the mixture was neutralised with 1N HCl diluted with EtOAc and a small amount of water was added. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc x2 . Combined organic layers were washed with brine dried and evaporated. The white residue was only partially soluble in MeOH DCM. The residue was a 1 1 mixture of intermediate II 27 and starting material intermediate II 28 and it was used as such in the next reaction.

3 Methoxybenzoyl chloride was added to a mixture of intermediate II 29 in pyridine. The reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 2 h then overnight at rt. Solvents were evaporated to dryness. EtOAc was added and the mixture was washed with sat aqueous NaHCO. An emulsion was formed. It was collected with the aqueous layer. The organic layer was dried and evaporated to afford only 115 mg. On standing the emulsion started to give a solid. Filtration washing with HO and trituration with EtO gave 292 mg of a white solid as intermediate II 44. The residue obtained from the organic layer was treated with water the solid was filtered washed with water and then triturated with EtO to give 40 mg more of intermediate II 28. Yield 56 

A mixture of intermediate II 30 and NHCl in 7N NH MeOH solution was heated at 90 C. sand bath in a closed vessel for 72 h. The reaction was heated at 11 C. for 24 h. Fresh 7N NH MeOH was added 20 mL and the reaction was heated at 120 C. for 5 h. Solvents were evaporated to dryness. The residue was partitioned between EtOAc water. The organic layer was washed once with water dried and evaporated to give only 11 mg of residue. The aqueous layer was evaporated to dryness to give 400 mg of a white solid as a mixture of desired product intermediate II 29 and NHC salts yield 100 that was used as such in next reaction.

LiHMDS was added to a 10 C. solution of ethyl imidazole 4 carboxylate in DMF. After 15 min o diphenylphosphinylhydroxylamine CAS 72804 96 7 was added in one portion and the mixture was stirred at rt for 6 h. The reaction was quenched with water an exothermic reaction occcurs until a clear solution is obtained. The solvents were removed under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in water and it was extracted with DCM x3 . Combined organic layers were dried and evaporated. The residue was purified on silica gel biotage DCM MeOH 0 to 10 MeOH to obtain 356 mg of desired product intermediate II 30. Yield 65 .

To a mixture of intermediate II 5 0.1 g 0.217 mmol 1 eq. 2 aminopyrimidine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester 48 mg 0.217 mmol 1 eq. and PdCl dppf 18 mg 0.022 mmol 0.1 eq. in DME 2 ml a saturated solution of potassium carbonate 0.2 ml was added. The mixture was heated at 130 C. for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with DCM and water was added. The organic phase was separated dried NaSO and evaporated to dryness. The residue was purified by CCTLC in a chromatotron then by HPLC. Yielding 3 mg Y 3 of final compound 3 8.

A mixture of the reaction crude 11 6 1.262 mmol 1 eq. methylsulfonylpiperazine 0.207 g 1.262 mmol 1 eq. and KCO 0.262 g 1.893 mmol 1.5 eq. in AcCN 8 mL was heated at 120 C. in a seal tube for 3 h. Water and AcOEt were added the organic phase was separate dried NaSO filtered and evaporated. The residue was purified by CCTLC in a chromatotron DCM MeOH 96 4. The desired fractions were collected yielding 100 mg.

A mixture of intermediate II 3 0.346 g 1.262 mmol 1 eq. in 2 chloro 1 1 1 triethoxyethane 2 mL was heated at 140 C. for 1 h. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was used in the next step without further purification.

To a solution of intermediate II 10 0.140 g 0.327 mmol 1.0 eq in DME 5.0 mL were added 2 aminopyrimidine 5 boronic acid pinacol ester 0.145 g 0.655 mmol 2.0 eq Pd dppf Cl 0.271 g 0.327 mmol 1.0 eq and CsCO 0.213 g 0.655 mmol 2.0 eq . The reaction mixture was heated at 130 C. for 18 h. The crude mixture was filtered off and the solvent was removed in vacuo to give a dark oil which was purified by column chromatography and then by HPLC preparative to afford the desired product 0.010 g 7 as a white solid.

A mixture of intermediate II 11 0.091 g 0.326 mmol 1.0 eq 1 methylsulfonyl piperazine 0.070 g 0.424 mmol 1.3 eq and trimethyl orthoformate 0.356 mL 0.326 mmol 10.0 eq in DCE 10 mL was stirred at rt for 4 h. Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 0.090 g 0.424 mmol 1.3 eq was added to the reaction mixture and it was stirred at rt for 18 h. The solvent was removed in vacuo and redissolved in DCM 50 mL . Then the mixture was extracted with brine 20 mL .

The organic layer was dried MgSO filtered and evaporated to afford the desired product 0.140 g 99 as a white solid.

To a solution of intermediate II 12 0.160 g 0.57 mmol 1.0 eq in chloroform 20 mL was added manganese dioxide 0.841 g 9.6 mmol 17.0 eq . The reaction mixture was refluxed for 2 h. The solution was filtered off and the solvent removed in vacuo to afford the desired product 0.091 g 57 as a white solid.

To a solution of intermediate II 13 0.320 g 0.990 mmol 1.0 eq in THF 20 mL at 0 C. was added a solution of lithium aluminum hydride 1M in THF 2.47 mL 2.47 mmol 2.5 eq . The reaction mixture was sirred at 0 C. for 1 h. Then water 0.3 mL was added and the crude mixture stirred for 10 min at 0 C. NaOH 2M 0.6 mL was added and again stirred at 000 C. for 10 min. Finally water 0.3 mL was added again and stirred for 10 min more. The crude mixture was filtered off to remove impurities. Solvent was removed in vacuo to give a yellow solid which was triturated from MeOH to afford the desired product 0.157 g 56 as a white solid.

To a solution of 1 2 4 triazin 6 amine 3 5 bis methylthio CAS 84582 90 1 0.3 g 1.59 mmol 1.0 eq in dry toluene 30 mL were added ethyl bromopyruvate 1.0 mL 7.96 mmol 5.0 eq and p toluensulfonic acid 0.048 g 0.255 mmol 0.16 eq . The reaction mixture was refluxed for 18 h. Then solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue dissolved in DCM 100 mL . The organic solvent was washed with water 2 50 mL dried MgSO and solvent removed in vacuo to give a dark oil. The resulting residue was dissolved in MeCN 20.0 mL and morpholine 1.39 mL 15.9 mmol 10.0 eq was added. The reaction mixture was heated at 85 C. until the completion of the reaction. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue dissolved in DCM 150 mL . The organic solvent was washed with water 2 50 mL dried MgSO filtered and evaporated to obtain a dark oil which was triturated from EtOH to afford the desired product 0.325 g 63 10922702 as a pale brown solid. The resulting residue was used in next reaction step without further purification.

A solution of intermediate II 14 98 mg 0.14 mmol in 1 2 DCE 4 mL was cooled to 0 C. Then trifluoroacetic acid 1.75 mL and 98 HSO two drops were added and the mixture was stirred for 12 h at room temperature. The solvents were removed in vacuo to give a brown residue that was dissolved in water 1 mL and cooled to 0 C. Aqueous NHOH was added up to pH 8 and the resulting white solid was filtered washed with water and dried to give a white solid that was combined with a second batch followed by purification by column chromatography DCM MeOH 100 1 to 100 5 mixtures to afford 5 2 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine as a white solid 41 mg 52 combined yield .

A solution of intermediate II 15 200 mg 0.35 mmol and MnO 500 mg 5.75 mmol in 1 2 DCE 10 mL was stirred for 5 h at room temperature showed the formation of aldehyde and some starting material remaining. The mixture was filtered the filtrate washed with DCM and EtOAc and the solvents removed in vacuo to give a green oil 268 mg . This oil was dissolved in 1 2 DCE 10 mL and 1 methanesulfonyl piperazine 115 mg 0.7 mmol AcOH 2 drops and NaSO 1 g were added and the mixture was stirred for 3 h at room temperature. Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 111 mg 0.52 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred for 3 h at room temperature and the solvents removed in vacuo to give a white residue that was purified by column chromatography EtOAc MeOH mixtures to give desired compound as a colourless oil 118 mg 47 yield .

A solution of intermediate II 16 300 mg 0.49 mmol in dry THF 30 mL was cooled to 0 C. Then LiAlH 1M solution in THF 1.0 mL 1.0 mmol was added dropwise and the solution was stirred for 4 h at 00 C. The mixture was quenched sequentially with water 0.30 mL 2N NaOH 0.30 mL and water 0.6 mL and stirred for 10 minutes. The resulting solid was filtered off and washed with EtOAc and MeOH. The solvents were removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by column chromatography EtOAc as eluant to give desired product 208 mg 75 yield as a yellow oil.

A mixture of intermediate II 17 1.89 g theorical 1.19 mmol morpholine 2.01 mL 23.8 mmol and triethylamine 3.36 mL 23.8 mmol in dioxane 50 mL was stirred at room temperature for 3 days. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by column chromatography using hexane EtOAc mixtures as eluents to give 6 2 bis 4 methoxy benzyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl 4 morpholin 4 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazine 2 carboxylic acid ethyl ester as a white solid 444 mg .

A mixture of intermediate II 18 650 mg 1.19 mmol and N N dimethylaniline 0.5 mL in POCl 6 mL was stirred for 3 h at 80 C. then for a further 18 h at 80 C. On cooling to room temperature more N N dimethylaniline 0.5 mL and POCl 6 mL were added and the mixture was heated for 24 h at 90 C. POClwas removed in vacuo the residue taken up in DCM 200 mL and the mixture poured onto ice. After stirring for 15 minutes NaHCOwas added portionwise up to pH 8 and the organic layer was separated washed with water 25 mL dried NaSO and the solvent removed in vacuo to give a blue oil 1.89 g which was used in next reaction step without further purification.

A mixture of intermediate II 19 220 mg 0.37 mmol and NHOAc 0.383 g 4.96 mmol in EtOH 5 mL was heated for 1 h at 150 C. under microwave irradiation. On cooling to 0 C. the crude reaction mixture was combined with a second batch and the resulting solid was filtered off washed with water EtOH 1 1 and dried to give desired product as a white solid 704 mg 94 combined yield .

A mixture of diethyl 3 5 pyrazoledicarboxylate 539 mg 2.54 mmol intermediate 11 20 1.21 g 2.65 mmol and KCO 440 mg 3.18 mmol in acetone 20 mL was stirred overnight at room temperature. Then water 50 mL was added and the mixture was extracted with DCM 4 150 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 50 mL dried MgSO and the solvent removed in vacuo to give a residue that was purified by column chromatography hexanes EtOAc 7 3 as eluent to give an oil that was triturated from ether to give desired product as a white solid 898 mg 66 yield .

A mixture of intermediate II 21 879 mg 2.33 mmol and dry TEA 0.96 mL 7 mmol in dry THF 50 mL was cooled to 0 C. Then trimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate 1.27 mL 7 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 2 h at 0 C. Then NBS 626 mg 3.45 mmol was added portionwise and the mixture was stirred for 1 h at 0 C.

The reaction mixture was diluted with water 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 4 150 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO dried MgSO and the solvent removed in vacuo to give desired compound as a brown oil 1.21 g . The product was used without further purification in next step.

A mixture of intermediate II 22 1.81 g 4.37 mmol tributyl 1 ethoxyvinyl tin 1.42 mL 4.24 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 0.15 g 0.21 mmol in dry DMF 15 mL was heated at 100 C. for 4 h and then for a further 18 h at 100 C. On cooling the reaction mixture was diluted with ether 300 mL the mixture was treated with aqueous 15 KF solution 100 mL . The mixture was vigorously stirred for 1 h the organic layer was separated and washed with saturated NaHCO 50 mL brine 50 mL dried MgSO and the solvents removed in vacuo to give a residue that was purified by column chromatography 10 1 cyclohexane EtOAc as eluant to give 1 2 bis 4 methoxy benzyl amino pyrimidin 5 yl ethanone 997 mg .

A mixture of 2 chloro 5 bromopyrimidine 1.0 g 5.16 mmol N 4 methoxybenzyl 4 methoxyphenyl methanamine hydrochloride cas 854391 95 0 1.59 g 5.418 mmol and DIPEA 2.68 mL 15.48 mmol in dry dioxane 10 mL was heated for 1 h at 160 C. under microwave irradiation. On cooling the mixture was diluted with EtOAc 200 mL and the organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 50 mL brine 50 mL dried MgSO and the solvent removed in vacuo to give a residue that was purified by column chromatography hexane EtOAc mixtures 20 1 to 10 1 as eluent to give desired product as a white solid 1.81 g 85 yield .

A mixture of final product 3 12 50 mg 0.16 mmol in dry DCM 2 mL was cooled to 0 C. and then boron fluoride dimethyl sulfide complex 0.5 mL 3.1 mmol was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred for 18 h at room temperature. The mixture was cooled to 0 C. and MeOH 2 mL was added dropwise and the mixture was stirred 1 h at room temperature. The solvents were removed in vacuo the residue was dissolved in MeOH 5 mL and the mixture stirred for 1 h at room temperature. The solvents were removed in vacuo to give a brown oil that was suspended in water 2 mL and 28 aqueous solution of NHOH in an amount such that pH was up to pH 8 . The resulting solid was filtered washed with water and dried 21 mg to yield final compound 3 11.

A mixture of intermediate II 31 150 mg 0.58 mmol morpholine 0.1 mL 1.16 mmol and triethylamine 0.3 mL 2.12 mmol in dioxane 2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 18 h. The mixture was then refluxed for 6 h. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by column chromatography using DCM MeOH mixtures as eluents to give final product 3 12 6 3 methoxy phenyl 8 morpholin 4 yl imidazo 1 5 a pyrazine 10843040 as a yellow solid 159 mg 89 yield .

A mixture of intermediate II 32 387 mg 1.60 mmol and N N dimethylaniline 0.6 mL in POCl 2.2 mL was stirred at room temperature for 18 h. Then the mixture was heated at 90 C. for 5 h. On cooling POClwas removed in vacuo and the residue taken up in DCM 100 mL and poured onto ice. After stirring for 15 minutes KCOwas added portionwise up to pH 8 the organic layer was separated washed with water 25 mL dried NaSO and the solvent was removed in vacuo to give a brown residue that was purified by column chromatography DCM MeOH 100 1 as eluent to give intermediate II 31 as a yellow solid 156 mg .

A mixture of intermediate II 33 787 mg 3.07 mmol and imidazole 5.22 g 76.75 mmol was heated at 170 C. for 18 h. On cooling water 25 mL was added and the resulting solid was filtered off washed with water and dried to give a brown solid that was recrystallised from MeOH affording 6 3 methoxy phenyl 7H imidazo 1 5 a pyrazin 8 on intermediate II 32 as a brown solid 392 mg which was used in next reaction step without further purification.

A mixture of 1 Methyl 1H imidazole 4 carboxamide cas 129993 47 1 560 mg 4.47 mmol 1 eq and 2 bromo 3 methoxyacetophenone 1.124 g 4.91 mmol 1.1 eq in MeCN 10 mL and DMF 3 mL was refluxed for 18 h. On cooling to 0 C. the resulting solid was filtered off washed with MeCN and dried to give 6 3 methoxy phenyl 2 methyl 8 oxo 7 8 dihydro imidazo 1 5 a pyrazin 2 ium bromide intermediate II 33 796 mg 53 yield as a white solid.

Following a similar procedure described for the synthesis of final product 3 10 afforded 5 2 1 methanesulfonyl piperidin 4 ylamino methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine as a yellowish solid 31.2 mg 64 yield in the last step .

Following a similar procedure described for the synthesis of final product 3 10 afforded 5 2 2 methoxy ethyl methyl amino methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine as a white solid 31.7 mg 82 yield in the last step .

A mixture of final product 3 10 22 mg 0.046 mmol 1 eq and n chlorosuccinimide 6.2 mg 0.046 mmol in DCM 2 mL was stirred for 18 h at room temperature. Then more NCS 2 mg 0.015 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred for 48 h at room temperature. The organic solvents were removed in vacuo and the residue was purified by column chromatography EtOAc MeOH mixtures to give 5 7 chloro 2 4 methanesulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine as a white solid final compound 3 15 3 mg 23 yield .

Following a similar procedure described for the synthesis of final product 3 10 afforded 5 2 4 methanesulfonyl 1 4 diazepan 1 ylmethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine as a yellowish solid 13.6 mg 33 yield in the last step .

Following a similar procedure described for the synthesis of final product 3 10 afforded 5 4 morpholin 4 yl 2 morpholin 4 ylmethyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine as a white solid 27.9 mg 70 yield in the last step .

Following a similar procedure described for the synthesis of final product 3 10 afforded 5 4 morpholin 4 yl 2 4 propane 2 sulfonyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine as a yellowish solid 29.3 mg 66 yield in the last step .

Following a similar procedure described for the synthesis of final product 3 10 afforded 6 2 4 methoxy benzylamino pyrimidin 5 yl 4 morpholin 4 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 2 yl methanol as a white solid 18 mg 46 yield in the last step .

Following a similar procedure described for the synthesis of final product 3 10 afforded 5 2 3aS 6aR 1 hexahydro pyrrolo 3 4 c pyrrol 2 yl methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyridin 2 yl 4 methoxy benzyl amine as a brown solid 13.9 mg 29 yield in the last step .

Following a similar procedure described for the synthesis of final product 3 10 deprotection of compound 3 19 14.0 mg 0.031 mmol afforded after purification of the crude reaction mixture by reverse column chromatography water MeCN mixtures as eluant and then in Silicagel EtOAc MeOH 7 3 mixtures desired compound 6 2 amino pyrimidin 5 yl 4 morpholin 4 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 2 yl methanol 3 21 as a white solid solid 4.76 mg 47 yield .

Following a similar procedure described for the synthesis of final product 3 10 deprotection of compound 3 20 11.51 mg 0.021 mmol afforded 5 2 3aS 6aR 1 hexahydro pyrrolo 3 4 c pyrrol 2 yl methyl 4 morpholin 4 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine as a yellowish solid 8.7 mg 97 yield after purification of the crude reaction mixture by reverese column chromatography water MeCN mixtures as eluant .

Following a similar procedure described for the synthesis of final product 3 10 afforded 5 2 4 Methyl piperazin 1 ylmethyl 4 morpholin 4 yl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine as a white solid.

Following a similar procedure described for the synthesis of final product 3 10 afforded 5 4 Morpholin 4 yl 2 piperazin 1 ylmethyl pyrazolo 1 5 a pyrazin 6 yl pyrimidin 2 ylamine as a white solid.

Compounds of the examples invention were tested in the PI3K signalling cellular assay described hereinbefore Western Blot Analysis which measures AKT phosphorylation inhibition. Cellular activity of representative compounds is represented in the table below 

The individual measured ECvalues against the particular cell of the exemplary compounds and of the chemotherapeutic agents are compared to the combination ECvalue. The combination Index CI score is calculated by the Chou and Talalay method CalcuSyn software Biosoft . A CI less 0.8 indicates synergy. A CI between 0.8 and 1.2 indicates additivity. A CI greater than 1.2 indicates antagonism. These data are provided in Table 6 below.

Last column on Table 6 represents the CI where represents a combination index lower than 0.1 represents a combination index greater than 0.1 but lower than 0.3 represents a combination index greater than 0.3 but lower than 0.7 represents a combination index greater than 0.7 but lower than 1.2 represents a combination index greater than 1.2.

