---

title: Intelligent remote device
abstract: An intelligent remote device equipped with a security token operatively coupled thereto is processing communications with a security token enabled computer system over a wireless private network. The intelligent remote device is adapted to emulate a local security device peripheral connected to the computer system. Multiple computer systems may be authenticated to using the intelligent remote device. Additionally, various secure communications connections mechanisms are described which are intended to augment existing security protocols available using wireless network equipment. Authentication of a user supplied critical security parameter is performed by the security token. The critical security parameter may be provided locally via the intelligent remote device or received from the wireless network and routed to the security token. Aural, visual or vibratory feedback may be provided to the user to signal a successful authentication transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08200195&OS=08200195&RS=08200195
owner: Activcard Ireland, Limited
number: 08200195
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20110128
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 740 497 filed Dec. 22 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 907 935 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a data processing method system and computer program product and more specifically to an intelligent remote device equipped with a security token which is used to emulate for authentication purposes a local security token peripheral device connected to a host computer system.

The explosive growth in the use of portable intelligent devices and network appliances has created demand for security mechanisms to be deployed which takes advantage of the greater user flexibility offered by these device. An ideal use for these devices is to simplify access to one or more computer systems in which a user may be required to interact with. For example in an enterprise computing environment a typical user may have a computer system which is used at a primary work location and a laptop which is used while the user is traveling.

In many cases different user credentials are required to access the computer system and the laptop as a defensive measure for preventing cascading security compromises. Furthermore the practice of using static user names and passwords has fallen into disfavor as this type of user credentials are frequently compromised temporarily forgotten and increases administrative expenses by requiring a helpdesk type arrangement to assist users whose user names and passwords have either been forgotten or compromised.

A more secure solution is to provide a portable security device such as a security token which minimizes the number of credentials a user is required to remember and provides a much more secure mechanism to authenticate the user to a computer system. However equipping each computer system with a separate security token reader and interface software can be expensive to deploy and maintain thus presenting a formidable economic barrier to improving computer system security over the use of static user names and passwords.

One possible solution is to provide an alternate mechanism for authenticating to one or more computer systems which minimizes the number security tokens readers and interface software required to be installed and maintained. An example of which is shown in European patent application EP 1061482 A1 to Cuong. The Cuong application discloses an intelligent portable device which allows a user to authenticate to a plurality of financial service providers using a single universal security token in the form of a smart card. The basic goal of this application is to reduce the number of smart cards required to be carried by the user.

Another solution is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 016 476 to Maes et. al. The Maes patent discloses an intelligent portable device for use by a consumer for point of sales and other financial transactions using the same concept of a single universal security token in the form of a smart card. This patent addresses security mechanisms such as biometric authentication to prevent unauthorized access to the user s universal security token.

Both the Cuong application and the Maes et al. patent are intended to be used over a public network in a client server arrangement where the user is authenticating to a external organization rather than there own organization. No particular emphasis is placed on the security of the telecommunications link.

In yet another approach U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 880 795 to Audebert et al. provides a solution which may be implemented over a public or private network using a client server and or a peer to peer authentication arrangement. This application addresses the limitations described above but does not address security issues related to wireless telecommunications links or alternate user login mechanisms associated with accessing the user s unattended computer system. This application is to a common assignee and is not admitted as prior art to the instant application.

In the relevant art it has been determined that certain of the earlier wireless security protocols could be compromised by a reasonably sophisticated attacker. For example the wireless equivalent privacy WEP specified by the IEEE 802.11 1999 standard was intended to provide roughly the same level of confidentiality for wireless data that is available in a wired Ethernet LAN which is not protected by encryption. Later versions of the IEEE 802.11 standards have improved the level of security of wireless connections. However total reliance on developing security protocols is not advisable. As such additional security measures should be provided to ensure that authenticating information is not compromised or vulnerable to man in the middle dictionary or replay type attacks.

Lastly a secure mechanism needs to be established which allows a user to authenticate to his or her computer system which does not require significant changes to existing user authentication mechanisms included in computer operating systems and does not reduce the overall level of security afforded by the existing authentication mechanisms.

Therefore a secure authentication arrangement which allows an intelligent remote device to emulate a local security device peripheral in a peer to peer relationship over a private network without reduction in the overall level of security would be highly advantageous in current enterprise computing environments.

This invention addresses the limitations described above and provides an intelligent remote device equipped with a security token which emulates a local security device peripheral in a peer to peer relationship over a private network without reduction in the overall level of security. The intelligent remote device includes a personal data assistant PDA a cellular telephone having private networking capabilities a network appliance or a personal security device such as a secure PIN pad.

The term security token as described herein includes hardware based security devices such as cryptographic modules smart cards integrated circuit chip cards portable data carriers PDC personal security devices PSD subscriber identification modules SIM wireless identification modules WIM USB token dongles identification tokens secure application modules SAM hardware security modules HSM secure multi media token SMMC trusted platform computing alliance chips TPCA and like devices.

In various method embodiments of the invention the invention comprises a method for accessing a security token enabled computer system using an intelligent remote device as a communications interface for a security token.

The method includes the establishment of a first communications connection between the intelligent remote device and a network gateway coupled to a network in common with a computer system. The network in common includes private wireless networking such as BlueTooth HomeRF and IEEE 802.11 a b g and its successors.

The communications connection utilizes existing security protocols established for the network interface devices and is essentially the connection handshake between the intelligent remote device and the network gateway. Examples of which include secure socket layer SSL transport layer security TLS private communications technology PCT internet protocol security IPsec or a secure messaging arrangement.

The secure messaging arrangement incorporates a shared symmetric key pair for cryptography purposes which is uniquely identified by a session identifier generated and assigned by the security token. Alternately or in combination with the symmetric key cryptography an APDU communications pipe may be established between the computer system and the security token. The APDU communications pipe allows exchanging of native security token APDU commands and responses which are encapsulated in standard networking protocols such as TCP IP.

Once the communications connection is established a critical security parameter CSP associated with a user is provided to the security token using the intelligent remote device as a communications interface. A critical security parameter as defined herein includes authentication data passwords PINs secret and private cryptographic keys which are to be entered into or output from a cryptographic module and is intended to be synonymous with the definition of CSP included in FIPS PUB 140 2 Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules. 

The provided critical security parameter may be directly entered using a user interface included with the intelligent remote device or sent from a remote location via the communications connection. For example a biometric scanner may be directly connected to the user s computer system or coupled to the network in common. In this arrangement the generally greater computing power of the user s computer system may be used to process a biometric sample which subsequently matched by the security token.

The provided user s critical security parameter is then used to perform an authentication transaction in which the user is authenticated to the computer system and the security token. A two factor authentication transaction may be incorporated as well where the security token is authenticated to the computer system by exchanging authenticating information during establishment of the communications connection. The two factor authentication process may be performed using dynamic one time passwords challenge response or by digital certificate exchanges. Upon successful completion of the authentication transaction the user is allowed access to at least one secure resource associated with the computer system.

To ensure security and to facilitate communications between the security token and the computer system through a network address translation NAT type firewall the communications connection is initiated by sending an access request message from the intelligent remote device to the computer system. The access request message provides sufficient information to the network gateway for routing to the target computer system and includes a return network address in which the target computer system is to respond. Multiple logical connections may be established over the network with one or more computer systems to employ the intelligent remote device as a security peripheral device. The access request message further includes information which identifies the intelligent remote device and associated security token.

The computer system includes an alternate user authentication method which allows the user to remotely authenticate to the computer system over the communications connection. The term method as defined herein is used in its broadest context which includes a function application routine remotely invocable method subroutine or applet. The alternate user authentication method includes an agent which monitors incoming network traffic directed to the computer system for an access request message. The agent invokes the alternate user authentication method which is an adjunct or replacement of a main user authentication method.

Aural or visual feedback is provided to the user following successful authentication. This allows the user to determine which computer system among a plurality of computer systems has been authenticated. The aural or visual feedback may be provided on either or both the intelligent remote device and the authenticated computer system.

In another embodiment of the invention a trusted path is established between the security token and the intelligent remote device. The trusted path allows the intelligent remote device to be used in high security operating environments such as FIPS security levels 3 and 4 which requires that critical security parameters be entered into or output from a cryptographic module in an encrypted form to prevent interception of the critical security parameters.

In various embodiments of the invention the hardware portion of the invention includes an intelligent remote device equipped with a security token in processing communications with a computer system over a network. The network includes a wireless private network such as BlueTooth HomeRF IEEE 802.11 a b g and successors which incorporate a secure communications protocol comprising secure socket layer SSL transport layer security TLS private communications technology PCT internet protocol security IPsec or a secure messaging arrangement.

The intelligent remote device includes a personal data assistant PDA a cellular telephone having private networking capabilities a network appliance or a personal security device such as a secure PIN pad.

The intelligent remote device is equipped with the necessary hardware software and firmware to emulate a security token peripheral device which is locally connected to the computer system and includes the abilities to operatively couple the security token to the intelligent remote device send an access request message over the network to the computer system to invoke establishment of a secure communications connection between the security token and the computer system provide cryptographic protection of data exchanged between the intelligent remote device and the computer system receive a critical security parameter provided by the user either directly or received through the secure communications connection exchange information over the network using an APDU communications pipe and provide aural or visual feedback to the user upon successful completion of a two factor authentication transaction.

The security token is comprised of hardware based security devices such as cryptographic modules smart cards integrated circuit chip cards portable data carriers PDC personal security devices PSD subscriber identification modules SIM to wireless identification modules WIM USB token dongles identification tokens secure application modules SAM hardware security modules HSM secure multi media token SMMC trusted platform computing alliance chips TPCA and like devices. The security token is provided with at least one operatively installed reference critical security parameter associated with the user and includes the abilities to receive a critical security parameter associated with the user perform an authentication transaction.

The computer system includes at least one workstation server desktop laptop personal computer mini computer or mainframe computer which requires user authentication prior to allowing a user to access. The computer system portion of the invention is equipped with the necessary hardware software and firmware to allow the user to remotely authenticate to the computer system over the network as if the user were local to the computer system and includes the abilities to receive an access request sent over the network from the intelligent remote device establish the communications connection between the computer system and the security token execute an alternate user authentication method which allows the user to remotely authenticate to the computer system over the network using the two factor authentication transaction exchange information over the network or communications connection using an APDU communications pipe and allow the user access to the computer system following successful completion of the two factor authentication transaction.

The intelligent remote device and security token enabled computer system include a set of application program interfaces embodied on a computer readable medium for execution by a processor which allows the intelligent remote device to emulate a security token peripheral device locally connected to the security token enabled computer system. The application program interfaces comprise a first interface that exchanges information between a security token and the security token enabled computer system in a protocol native to the security token and a second interface that receives and routes a critical security parameter to the security token.

In one embodiment of the invention the first set of application interface programs installed in the intelligent remote device provides protocol conversion into a protocol native to the security token. In another embodiment of the invention the first set of application interface programs installed in the intelligent remote device extracts the information from communications packets already in a protocol native to said security token.

The programs and associated data may be stored on transportable digital recording media such as a CD ROM floppy disk data tape DVD or removable hard disk for installation on the computer system intelligent remote device and or security token as one or more transportable computer program products. The programs and associated data comprise executable instructions which are stored in a code format including byte code compiled interpreted compliable or interpretable.

The computer program product embodied in the tangible form is readable by a plurality of processors in processing communications and includes executable instructions stored for causing one or more of the plurality of processors to establish a secure communications connection between a security token and a security token enabled computer system via an intelligent remote device authenticate at least the security token to said security token enabled computer system provide a critical security parameter associated with a user to the security token and authenticate the critical security parameter by the security token.

This present invention provides an arrangement which allows an intelligent remote device to securely emulate a local security device peripheral connected to a security token enabled computer system via a network. The applications are envisioned to be programmed in a high level language such as Java C C C or Visual Basic .

Referring to a functional block diagram of the security token enabled computer system is shown which includes a central processor a main memory a display electrically coupled to a display interface a secondary memory subsystem electrically coupled to a hard disk drive a removable storage drive electrically coupled to a removable storage unit and an auxiliary removable storage interface electrically coupled to an auxiliary removable storage unit .

A communications interface subsystem is coupled to a network via a network interface . A security token is operatively coupled to the communications interface via a security token interface . User input devices including a mouse and a keyboard are operatively coupled to the communications interface via a user interface . Lastly an optional biometric scanner is operatively coupled to the communications interface via a biometric scanner interface .

The central processor main memory display interface secondary memory subsystem and communications interface system are electrically coupled to a communications infrastructure . The host computer system includes an operating system having an extensible modifiable or replaceable logon security application a security token application programming interface one or more security token aware applications one or more proprietary extensions to the logon security application a communications agent capable of sensing an incoming access request and invoking an alternate logon method cryptography software capable of performing symmetric and asymmetric cryptographic functions secure messaging software and all necessary device interface and driver software.

The security token includes a wireless optical and or electrical connection means compatible with the security token interface a processor a cryptography co processor volatile and non volatile memory electrically coupled to the processor and co processor a runtime operating environment cryptography extensions available to the operating system and capable of performing symmetric and asymmetric cryptographic functions compatible with the computer system s cryptography software a security executive application one or more CSP protected applications including two factor authentications are functionally coupled to the security executive application and a public key infrastructure PKI key pair functionally coupled to the security executive application.

The security token further includes the necessary authentication applications and cryptographic extensions to successfully perform the two factor authentication transaction with the security token enabled computer system. The non volatile memory has operatively stored therein one or more reference CSPs which are verified by the security executive application to authenticate a user to the security token. The security token is embodied in a removable form factor although other form factors will work as well.

The network includes a wireless private network such as BlueTooth HomeRF IEEE 802.11 a b g and its successors which incorporate a secure communications protocol comprising secure socket layer SSL transport layer security TLS private communications technology protocol PCT internet protocol security IPsec or a secure messaging arrangement. The network further includes a network gateway which allows ad hoc connection to the intelligent remote device.

Referring to a functional block diagram of an intelligent remote device is shown. The intelligent remote device essentially incorporates the same modular components included in the security token enabled computer described above. The intelligent remote device includes a processor a main memory a display electrically coupled to a display interface a secondary memory subsystem electrically coupled to an optional hard disk drive a virtual storage drive and a removable memory interface electrically coupled to a removable memory module .

A communications interface subsystem is coupled to a network via a network interface a security token coupled to a security token interface and a user input arrangement including a stylus pen a touch sensitive display a miniature mouse and or keyboard coupled to a user device interface and an optional biometric scanner coupled to an optional biometric scanner interface . The processor main memory display interface secondary memory subsystem and communications interface system are electrically coupled to a communications infrastructure 

The intelligent remote device further includes an operating system having an extensible modifiable or replaceable logon security application one or more proprietary extensions to the logon security application a security token application programming interface for example PC SC one or more security token aware applications a token emulator application capable of causing the intelligent remote device to transparently exchange security token commands and responses between the network computer system cryptography software capable of performing symmetric and asymmetric cryptographic functions secure messaging software and all necessary device interface and driver software. The security token may be the same device normally used to access the security token enabled computer system or another security token containing the necessary information to successfully complete the two factor authentication transaction.

Referring a functional layer diagram of the computer system is shown. The various layers shown are loosely based on the Open System Interconnection model OSI . For simplicity certain layers are not shown and should be assumed to be present and or incorporated into adjacent layers. The uppermost applications layer includes user and security token aware applications denoted as Token Apps .

The middleware layer includes security token application programming interface applications denoted as Token API which allow the user and security token aware applications included in the applications layer to communicate with the attached security token . An example of the security token application programming interface is described in the PC SC workgroup specifications available from the organization s website www.pcscworkgroup.com.

The operating system layer includes the software that controls the allocation and usage of hardware resources such as memory central processing unit CPU time disk space and peripheral devices. Included in this layer are the logon security application s and added extensions which allows for an alternate user authentication method. A user input device is shown coupled to the added extension Ext .

For example in Microsoft Windows a customizable or replaceable dynamically linked library msgina.dll is provided which allows inclusion of alternate authentication methods developed by third party vendors. A brief description of how one skilled in the art would customize or replace msgina.dll is presented in The Essentials of Replacing the Microsoft Graphical Identification and Authentication Dynamic Link Library by Ben Hutz and Jack Fink both of the Microsoft Corporation published June 2001.

In Unix and Linux based operating systems a separate security executive application hardware and software drivers and security policy libraries are installed which interfaces with a Pluggable Authentication Module PAM and Common Display Environment CDE . Analogously the PAM and CDE allows for customization and replacement. An extensive library of supported applications including source codes and documentation is available from the Movement for the Use of Smart Cards in a Linux Environment MUSCLE at www.linuxnet.com.

The communications layer is essentially a consolidation of the network and transport layers and includes an agent and APDU Interface software examples of which are provided above. The agent is used to monitor incoming network traffic for an access request message. Detection of an access request message by the agent invokes the alternate user authentication method.

Invocation of the alternate user authentication method by detection of an access request message by the agent causes the resource manager to toggle the security token device interface from the local token device interface to the remote token device interface . The APDU Interface software provides protocol conversion between the various communications formats used by the computer system network and security token. In an alternate embodiment of the invention APDU protocol conversion is performed by a counterpart application installed in the intelligent remote device.

The data link layer denoted as Device Drivers includes a resource manager which controls access to the security token and is the application responsible for selecting either the local token device driver or remote token device driver based on established logon policies. The software device drivers may be based on the PC SC Personal Computer Smart Card promulgated by the Open Card industry consortium. Additional information is available from the consortium s website at www.opencard.org.

The final layer denoted as Physical Devices includes the local token device interface which couples the security token to the computer system . The physical device layer further includes a software based remote token device driver . This remote token device driver is included in the physical device layer for simplifying the understanding of the invention only. In actuality the remote token device driver is installed in the Device Driver layer . Lastly a network interface device provides the physical connection between the computer system and the network .

Referring to a functional layer diagram of the intelligent remote device is shown. As described above the various layers shown are loosely based on the Open System Interconnection model OSI. The intelligent remote device essentially incorporates the same functional layers included in the security token enabled computer described in and will not be repeated here. A token emulator is shown as a middleware application which allows the intelligent remote device to emulate a security token peripheral device locally connected to the security token enabled computer system over a wireless network .

The token emulator includes logical interfaces that facilitates the transparent exchange of information between the security token and the security token enabled computer system in a protocol native to the security token and receives and routes a critical security parameter entered locally to the intelligent remote device or received from the wireless network to the security token . While shown as a middleware application it will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the token emulator may also be provided as a subroutine ActiveX control function remotely invocable method associated with the Token API or agent installed in the security token enabled computer system or a local browser applet.

The native protocol is generally in the format of an application protocol data unit APDU as specified in ISO 7816 4. As described herein the token emulator facilitates the transparent exchange of APDU commands and responses between the security token enabled computer system and the intelligent remote device . Various communications embodiments of the invention are provided which are described in the discussions included with which follows.

Referring to a detailed block diagram illustrating the interaction of the intelligent remote device with the computer system is shown. Details related to security considerations for information exchanged over the network is omitted in the instant discussion in order to simplify the explanation and understanding of this portion of the invention. Security considerations are included in the discussion for which follows.

To initiate the process in one embodiment of the invention a user in possession of the intelligent remote device selects a token aware remote authentication application . The remote authentication application causes the token emulation application to execute an alternate authentication method which implements a pre established security policy or script associated with the extension EXT to the logon application . Invocation of the logon application causes the remote authentication application to prompt the user to enter his or her critical security parameter CSP . In a related embodiment of the invention the token emulator application generates an access request message AR which is sent over the network to the computer system .

The access request message includes information about the intelligent remote device such as a unique identifier information about the operatively coupled security token such as a unique serial number and information about the assigned network address. The access request message is used to transit a wireless access point in wireless network arrangements.

In a one embodiment of the invention a user enters his or her CSP through a user input device which is routed by the logon application via the resource manager to the APDU interface for protocol conversion. The CSP incorporated in APDU format is then routed through the security token device interface and into the security token . The security token performs an authentication transaction which authenticates the user to the security token. User authentication is performed by comparison of the entered CSP to a reference CSP stored inside the security token .

In another embodiment of the invention the CSP may be entered from the security token enabled computer system or a remote location and securely sent over the wireless connection to the security token via the intelligent remote device . This alternate embodiment of the invention is particularly suited for biometric authentication which generally requires greater processing power than may be available from the intelligent remote device.

On the computer system receipt of the access request message AR is detected by the agent which causes invocation of the alternate user authentication method. As previously described invocation of the alternate user authentication method by detection of an access request message by the agent causes the resource manager to toggle the security token device drivers from the local token interface device to the remote token device driver . The token API is concurrently invoked by the extension EXT which causes the authentication transaction to be initiated. Control of the counterpart applications installed on the security token enabled computer system and the intelligent remote device may be performed using remote method invocation subroutines and callable methods. One skilled in the art will appreciate that many alternate mechanisms are available in the relative art to accomplish invocation and control of the counterpart applications and modules.

Referring to a second part of the authentication transaction is performed under the control of the token API . The second part of the authentication transaction utilizes a pre established security policy or script associated with the logon application . The security policy may include challenge response digital certificate exchange dynamic passwords etc. Authentication data is exchanged via the APDU interface and resource manager using the remote security token device interface and network interface and exchanged over the network with the intelligent remote device . Authentication data received at the network interface of the intelligent remote device is routed by the token emulator via the resource manager and APDU interface through the security token device interface and into the security token .

Referring to a secure messaging arrangement is shown where a symmetric key pair Ksys ID Ksys ID having a unique session identifier assigned by the security token is used to provide end to end cryptographic protection of information exchanged between the security token ST via the intelligent remote device IRD and the computer system CS over the network . The network includes a network gateway NG which provides an ad hoc secure connection between the network gateway and the intelligent remote device IRD . The symmetric key pair Ksys ID Ksys ID are incorporated into a symmetric cryptography arrangement which is described in commonly assigned co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 424 783 first filed on Apr. 29 2003 entitled Universal Secure Messaging For Cryptographic Modules and is herein incorporated by reference.

Referring to an alternate secure messaging arrangement is shown where two sets of symmetric key pairs Ksys ID Ksys ID Ksys Idx Ksys Idx each set of key pairs having a unique session identifier assigned by the security token are used to provide end to end cryptographic protection of information exchanged between the security token ST via the intelligent remote device IRD and the computer system CS over the network . The first symmetric key pair set Ksys ID Ksys ID is used to provide a trusted path between the security token and the intelligent remote device IRD . The trusted path allows the intelligent remote device to be used in high security operating environments such as FIPS security levels 3 and 4 which requires that critical security parameters be entered into or output from a cryptographic module in an encrypted form to prevent interception of critical security parameters.

The second key pair set Ksys Idx Ksys Idx provides the secure communications connection between the intelligent remote device IRD and the computer system . Other aspects of this second secure communications embodiment are likewise described in the co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 424 783.

Referring to another secure communications embodiment is shown where an APDU pipe is established between the intelligent remote device IRD and the computer system CS . In this embodiment of the invention a pipe server application is installed on the computer system CS . The pipe server application is used to encapsulate APDU commands into communications packets generally TCP IP for transmission over the network to the intelligent remote device. The APDU s may be encrypted before or after encapsulation in a network communications packet. The pipe server application is also used to separate incoming APDU responses from the network communications packets convert the resulting APDU responses into a protocol readable by other applications installed on the computer system CS .

The intelligent remote device IRD includes a pipe client application which is used to separate incoming APDU commands from the network communications packets and route the resulting APDU commands to the security token . Alternately the pipe client application packages APDU responses generated by the security token into the network communications packets for transmission over the network to the computer system.

The APDU pipe communications arrangement is described in commonly assigned co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 09 844 246 first filed on Apr. 30 2001 entitled Method and System for Establishing a Remote Connection to a Personal Security Device and is herein incorporated by reference.

Referring to another embodiment of the invention is shown where a first secure communications connection is established between the security token and a first computer system CS using a first symmetric key pair set Ksys ID Ksys ID and a second secure connection is established between the security token and a second computer system CS using a second symmetric key pair set Ksys Idx Ksys Idx over the network. This embodiment illustrates that multiple computer systems may be authenticated using the intelligent remote device IRD . In addition network access privileges may be obtained by sending an authenticating message AM from the first computer system CS to an authenticating server AS following successful completion the two factor authentication transaction.

Additional embodiments of the invention allow the user to send his or her CSP in the form of a biometric sample to the security token via the secure communications connection. In this embodiment of the invention a biometric scanner is provided on the second computer system CS which is securely connected to the security token over the network . The biometric scanner may be associated with another computer system or directly connected to the network as a network appliance.

In yet another embodiment of the invention aural or visual feedback may be provided to the user following successful completion of the two factor authentication transaction. The aural or visual feedback may be provided at either or both the computer systems CS CS 105 and or the intelligent remote device IRD .

Lastly a flow chart of the major steps involved in implementing this invention is shown in . The process is initiated by a user in possession of a security token equipped intelligent remote device. The intelligent remote device establishes an ad hoc communications connection with a security token enabled computer system . The user executes a remote authentication application installed in the intelligent remote device which causes an access request message to be sent to the computer system if required to transit a network gateway or access point and invokes an alternate authentication method which allows the intelligent remote device to emulate a local security device peripheral connected to the computer system.

Concurrently or thereafter the user is prompted by the remote authentication application to provide his or her critical security parameter CSP . The critical security parameter may be entered from the intelligent remote device security token enabled computer system or from another computer system in processing communications with the intelligent remote device. An authentication transaction is then performed in which the user is authenticated to the security token using the provided CSP .

If the authentication transaction is unsuccessful processing ends . If the authentication transaction is successful the user is allowed access at least one secure resource . Optionally the user is provided with sensory feedback which informs the user of the successful authentication transaction. Also in the embodiments of the invention which employs symmetric keys having unique session identifiers assigned by the security token the symmetric keys may be established as temporary surrogates for authenticated CSPs. Processing of the remote authentication transaction ends following its successful completion .

The foregoing described embodiments of the invention are provided as illustrations and descriptions. They are not intended to limit the invention to precise form described. In particular it is contemplated that functional implementation of the invention described herein may be implemented equivalently in hardware software firmware and or other available functional components or building blocks. No specific limitation is intended to a particular cryptographic module operating environment. Other variations and embodiments are possible in light of above teachings and it is not intended that this Detailed Description limit the scope of invention but rather by the Claims following herein.

