---

title: Methods and systems for utilizing activity data with clustered events
abstract: The present disclosure relates to methods and systems for clustering individual items of web content, and then utilizing activity and profile data to both select clusters of content items for presentation to a user, and determining how the selected clusters of content items are presented to the user of an online social network service. With some embodiments, the activity data are derived by monitoring and detection interactions with the individual items of web content by an individual user, or other users with whom the individual user is related, as established via, and defined by, the social network service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949239&OS=08949239&RS=08949239
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 08949239
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110120
---
The present disclosure generally relates to processing and presenting web content within an online social networking environment. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods and systems for clustering individual items of web content and then utilizing user activity and profile data in combination with a user s social network data to both select clusters of content items for presentation to a user and determine how the selected clusters of content items are presented to the user of an online social network.

A social network service is a computer or web based application that enables users to establish links or connections with persons for the purpose of sharing information with one another. In general a social network service enables people to memorialize or acknowledge the relationships that exist in their offline i.e. real world lives by establishing a computer based representation of these same relationships in the online world. With a social networking site or service a user may have many options for sharing information with others. For example a user may communicate a private message to a single user for example by directing an email to the user or by posting the message to a web page only accessible to the recipient. In addition to sharing user generated content a social networking user may share information by sharing a link e.g. a hyperlink or Uniform Resource Locator URL directing the recipient to an external content source such as a blog site news site or an audio or video clip of potential interest to the recipient. In addition to enabling one to one sharing many social network services make it easy to share information with multiple users including groups. For example some social network services enable a user to post a message to or share a link with all users or some predefined set of users. With some social networks users can self organize into groups such that like minded individuals or individuals with a common interest can become members of the same group for purposes of sharing information and communicating with one another.

As users of social network services become more accustomed to interacting with and via the services and as users become accustomed to sharing more personal information using the services the services have access to greater amounts of more personal user information. Consequently opportunities exist to improve and enrich the overall experience by presenting to users the right mix of information at the right time.

Methods and systems for clustering individual items of web content and then utilizing user activity and profile data in combination with social network data to select clusters of web content items for presentation to users of an online social network are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

For purposes of the present disclosure an item of web content is meant to broadly encompass as the name suggests any individual item or unit of textual visual or aural content that may be processed rendered and presented as part of the user experience with a website. In particular the term web content is meant to encompass web documents and web pages where a web document is defined more broadly than a web page and the two can be distinguished by at least some of the following characteristics. Whereas a web page is formatted in HTML Hypertext Markup Language or XTML eXtensible Hypertext Markup Language and transferred using HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol or HTTPS HTTP Secure web documents are formatted with HTML XHTML or any other type of valid MIME Content Type such as an ISO OpenDocument and transferred with HTTP HTTPS or any other Internet communication protocol. Additionally a web page is traditionally displayed and viewed via a conventional web browser application whereas a web document may be displayed or viewed within a web browser or any other MIME compatible application to include any number and variety of desktop mobile or tablet based applications.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention using the various methodologies described herein a social network service analyzes web documents relating to news stories or news events to generate clusters of web documents based on unique news stories and or events. By monitoring and detecting how various users interact with the web documents the social network service attempts to present or recommend the cluster of web documents related to the news stories and or events that are most likely to be of interest to a particular user. As such the many illustrated examples presented herein refer to web documents and more particularly web documents associated with news stories and events. However a great number and variety of other items of web content are equally applicable to the inventive subject matter. For instance other examples of web content items with which the invention may be utilized include but are not limited to web pages text messages tweets photographs graphics videos content and audio content. Furthermore for purposes of the present disclosure a user of a social network service is meant to include both registered users such as those who have registered with a service and have obtained authentication information e.g. username email address and password and unregistered users or guests to the social networking service site.

Furthermore many of the examples described herein are provided in the context of a business networking service e.g. an online social network service specifically aimed at business users such as that operated by LinkedIn Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. However the inventive concepts are equally applicable to a variety of online or computer based social network services. Moreover as used herein the terms social network social networking site and social network service are meant to include both social networks with which users generally establish connections with friends and family and business or professional networks with which users generally establish connections with their professional contacts.

In general and consistent with embodiments of the invention in the context of a social network service a connection or link represents or is otherwise associated with an information access privilege such that a first user of a social network service who has established a connection with a second user is via the establishment of that connection authorizing the second person to view or access certain personal information such as contact information or other information that may be part of a user s profile e.g. phone numbers an address employment information photographs status information educational background information shared links tweets and so on . Those users of the social network service who are not connected to the first user may or may not be permitted or authorized to access or view the first user s personal information. In some embodiments users may become members of groups that is self organized groups based on a common interest such that each member of the group authorizes a certain access privilege for certain information to other members of the same group. Of course depending on the particular implementation of the social network service the nature and type of the information that may be shared as well as the granularity with which the access privileges may be defined to protect certain types of data can vary greatly.

In addition to establishing connections with other users with some embodiments of the invention a user may subscribe to or follow another user a company or a topic e.g. a particular subject matter . Whereas a direct connection between two users typically requires that both users acknowledge or authorize the establishment of the connection and information is shared two ways following another user is typically a unilateral action such that information only flows in one direction from the person being followed to the follower. By requesting to follow another user company or topic the follower will be notified of certain activities and events undertaken by or otherwise associated with the user company or topic being followed. For example if a first user is following a second user when the second user comments on a particular news story the first user may be notified of the comment and provided with a link to the web document representing the news story on which the second user commented. Similarly the social network service may detect when a user performs a search using certain keywords and then associate these keywords with the user such that the relationship between the user and the keywords can be used to identify content of potential interest to the user.

In addition to simply facilitating communication between users some social network services attempt to recommend to users individual items of content e.g. a news story based on some explicit or implicit expression of interest by the users. For instance a social networking user may indicate that she is interested in certain topics for example by checking a box corresponding with topics of interest or otherwise indicating or selecting topics of interest. Accordingly the social network service may recommend that the user view certain content that is deemed to have subject matter consistent with a particular topic. In some instances rather than recommending content based on an explicit expression of interest a social network service may recommend content based on some implicit expression of interest. For example a social network service may detect and analyze content items that a particular user is accessing either internally at the social network service or externally at a third party service and based on the analysis recommend other content deemed to be similar to the content being accessed by the user. However in many instances the algorithms and mechanisms by which social network services recommend content to users leaves much to be desired.

As will be described in greater detail below clusters of web documents are assigned ranking scores on a per user basis based at least in part on how a user interacts with various web documents and how other users with whom the user is related e.g. directly connected to followed by following indirectly related to another by similar or same title in same industry and so forth interact with the web documents. Accordingly consistent with some embodiments of the invention a social network service generates a number of clusters of web documents. For example each cluster of web documents may include web documents representing news stories determined to be associated with a particular news event. The social network service monitors and detects when and how users of the social network service are interacting with the various web documents for example by reading a web document by submitting a web document via the social network service by sharing a web document with another user or group by commenting on a particular web document or by liking a web document.

Then for each user the clusters of web documents are assigned ranking scores based on an analysis of the various interactions that the user and the users with whom the user is related directly or by group or some other affiliation have with the web documents such that each ranking score for a cluster represents a measure of the likelihood that a particular user would be interested in a web document from the particular cluster. In particular the cluster ranking scores for a particular user are based on detecting when the user interacts with various web documents and when other users with whom the user is related interact with the web documents. Additionally other relationship information may be considered when deriving a ranking score. For instance a relationship between a cluster and a user may be ascertained by analyzing some aspect of a user s profile information such as the user s employment history educational background professional certifications and honors and so forth.

With some embodiments the particular activities that are monitored and detected are those activities that occur via interactions with the social network service. However in some embodiments in addition to interactions that occur via the social network other interactions that occur outside of the social network system are also analyzed. For instance the social network service may have access to data that is generated by one or more third party services such that the data may be accessed periodically or in real time via an application programming interface API . In some instances a formal agreement will be in place between the social network service and the third party such that the third party will have previously agreed to share data with the social network service. In other instances the social network service may have one or more automated processes for scraping data from a third party service. In any case some embodiments utilize both data derived from internally detecting certain interactions as well as data derived from external data sources where such data is used to assess the likelihood that a user will be interested in a certain cluster of articles associated with certain topics.

With some embodiments the social network service will monitor when a particular web document or cluster of web documents is generating negative feedback for example by receiving a lot of impressions but generating relatively few clicks or engagements. In such a scenario the web document or cluster may not be popular and therefore should not be prominently presented.

By way of example if a first user is a direct connection e.g. a friend or personal contact of a second user and the second user reads a particular web document related to a news event the ranking score for the cluster to which the web document is assigned will be increased to reflect the possibility that the first user may be interested in the news event. Once the clusters are generated and assigned ranking scores users are presented with personalized content. For instance the social network service may customize a particular web page for a particular user to show links to those web documents related to news stories associated with the cluster having the highest ranking score for the user. Furthermore the selection of document clusters may be tailored to the particular application or section of the social network website that the user is viewing. For instance if a user is viewing his or her personalized home page for the entire site the particular cluster or clusters of web documents that may be recommended to the user may differ from the recommendations that the user would see if the user was viewing a web page associated with a particular group or company to which the user belongs or follows. Accordingly at least with some embodiments the algorithm for selecting the particular cluster or clusters of web documents to recommend to a user takes into consideration not only the relative ranking scores of each cluster of web documents but also the context in which the recommendation is being provided. Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to one skilled in the art from the description of the figures that follows.

In addition to establishing connections with other users a social network user may indicate that he is an employee of a particular company is a former employee of a company or simply has an interest in a particular company e.g. by subscribing to follow the company . This relationship is indicated in by the group of users with label Company and reference number . This information may be explicitly provided for example by the social network service prompting for and receiving employment history information for a user such that the information forms part of the user s social network profile. Similarly a user may affirmatively request to become part of an administered group for his company where the group is hosted by the social network service and serves as an online forum for the exchange of information between all employees of the company. When a user has indicated that he is a current or former employee of a company or follows a particular company the interactions with web documents by the employees for the company can impact the ranking scores for the clusters of web documents and ultimately impact which clusters or web documents are recommended to the individual user. For example if several employees of a company of which the user is also an employee are reading web documents pertaining to a particular news event or story then this information can be used to infer that the individual user may also be interested in the story. As such the ranking score for the cluster of documents to which the story relates may be increased when many employees of a company of which the user is also an employee are viewing or otherwise interacting with those web documents associated with the particular cluster.

Another type of relationship a user may have with another user involves common membership in a group. This is illustrated in by the users labeled Group with reference number . For instance a group may be an online forum where users with similar interests can exchange information and engage in discussions about topics of interest that are generally related to the group. Groups may be self administered such that any user of the social network service can establish a group and become the group s administrator. Alternatively a group may be administered by an operator or administrator of the social network service. A group may be a public group and open to all users of the social network service or a private group requiring an invitation or a confirmation of some information prior to being granted membership in the group. For example registration with a group for the alumni of a particular school may require that each user confirm his matriculation with and or graduation from the particular school prior to being granted access to the alumni group. As with connections and company groups the interactions that members of a group have with various web documents may impact the ranking score for a cluster of documents for a particular user thereby impacting the content that is ultimately recommended to the user.

A final type of relationship illustrated in may involve being related to others who have subscribed to the same topic of interest. For example with some embodiments a social network service may allow users to subscribe to content associated with particular topics. For example these topics may be associated with what are referred to as professional interest centers . Consistent with some embodiments a professional interest center is similar to a group but is maintained or administered by a select user or group of users who are deemed to be experts on a particular topic. These experts are then responsible for curating e.g. selecting and or authoring the content that is published in connection with their particular professional interest center. A user may subscribe to a particular professional interest center to receive notifications of when new content is published and shared. As such the interactions that other users who subscribe to the same professional interest centers have with various web documents can be used as a measure of the likelihood that another user who also subscribes to the professional interest center will have an interest in the content.

In addition to the specific relationship types illustrated in the relevance to a user of a particular item of web content may be determined based on a variety of other data as well to include profile data data derived from analyzing and tracking a user s interactions with the social network service or a third party service and other data. For instance with some embodiments certain keywords used in a user s profile to describe some aspect of his experience or interests may be utilized in determining the likelihood that an item of web content will be of interest to the user. Similarly if a user performs a keyword search this keyword may be used to identify web based content of potential interest to the user. In addition such profile information as the industry a user belongs to or the location where the user lives may be utilized to assess the likelihood that a web document will be of interest to the user. If a user has attended a certain event as evidenced by information obtained via the social network service or via a third party data source such information may be useful in determining the relevance to the user of certain web based content. A user s reading history e.g. which books a user has read or which articles or document clusters the user tends to read from may be used to assess the relevance of an item of web content to the user. For instance if several users who have read book A have selected to read web documents clustered around topic A then the social network service may recommend documents from a cluster around topic A to those users who have read book A. Similarly if users share or comment on a certain article the content those users consume may be recommended to others who share or comment on the same article.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention a user utilizes a computing device to access the social network service over a data network such as the Internet. As such the social network service includes a content server module e.g. a web server for receiving and processing requests for content. The content server module operates in conjunction with a web document processing module and a content personalization module to present a user with personalized content. More specifically the content personalization module facilitates the presentation to a user of recommendations regarding web documents and or clusters of web documents that the user is likely to find of interest based on an analysis of how the user and persons with whom the user is related have interacted with various web documents.

The web document processing module includes a document retrieval module a topic identifier module a clustering module and a ranking score generating module . With some embodiments the document retrieval module may automatically request and receive web documents from one or more external services e.g. content partners . Additionally the document retrieval module may fetch or retrieve documents in real time as those documents are submitted to the social network service by users or submitted or shared by users on other social networking services such as Twitter or Facebook . For instance when a user shares or posts a URI of a particular document via the social network service the document retrieval module may request the web document from a content source by its URI. Regardless of how received the web document processing module includes a topic identifier module and a clustering module that process documents when received. Consistent with some embodiments the topic identifier module processes received web documents to identify topics with which the web document might be related. Any number of known algorithms for identifying topics in textual content may be utilized. For example the topic identifier module may analyze the text of the web document and form topic vectors based on the words found within the text. With some embodiments the result of the analysis is a set of topics and a confidence number assigned to each web document indicating a measure of the confidence that the particular web document relates to a particular topic.

Similarly the clustering module processes web documents to generate the clusters of web documents where topics identified by the topic identifier module form the basis of each cluster. For instance the clusters of web documents may be automatically generated after topics are automatically selected to be the basis of the individual clusters. For instance a topic may be a particular news event such as the inauguration of the U.S. President. The document clustering module will then analyze the text of each web document to assess whether the web document is about the particular topic associated with the various clusters. In some instances the various topics which form the basis of each cluster may be automatically suggested and then manually selected. However in some embodiments the entire process is automated.

Consistent with some embodiments of the invention a document interaction detection module detects interactions with web documents. For instance each time a user of the social network takes any one of the actions specified and described in the interaction is detected and the appropriate database tables are updated to reflect the interaction. Accordingly the ranking score generating module analyzes the data representing the user interactions over time and generates a ranking score for each cluster of documents for each user based at least in part on how the user and how the persons with whom the user is related has interacted with the various web documents. When a user or more precisely a user s computing device requests content from the social network service the content personalization module may populate a portion of the resulting user interface display with one or more recommendations relating to web documents or one or more clusters of web documents that are deemed to have the highest ranking score for that particular user.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

