---

title: Tools enabling preferred domain positioning on a registration website
abstract: The present inventions may be implemented by tools enabling preferred domain positioning on a registration website. An example may comprise a computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by a server computer, cause the server to receive a bid from a registry seeking such preferred placement for a domain (that may be administered by the registry), generate a quality score for the domain, and determine the preferred placement based upon the bid and the quality score.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620761&OS=08620761&RS=08620761
owner: Go Daddy Operating Company, LLC
number: 08620761
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110103
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 636 412 entitled Tools Enabling Preferred Domain Positioning on a Registration Website and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 636 394 entitled Methods for Determining Preferred Domain Positioning on a Registration Website both being filed on Dec. 11 2009 assigned to The Go Daddy Group Inc. and incorporated hereby in entirety by reference.

This patent application also is related to the following previously filed patent applications all assigned to The Go Daddy Group Inc. and incorporated hereby in their entirety by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 715 810 entitled A Preferred Placement Service for Domain Registration Websites filed Mar. 2 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 715 831 entitled Tools Enabling a Preferred Placement Service for Domain Registration Websites filed Mar. 2 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 715 881 entitled Methods Implementing a Preferred Placement Service for Domain Registration Websites filed Mar. 2 2010. 

The present inventions generally relate to domain registration and more particularly methods and tools for determining and enabling preferred domain positioning on a registration website.

An example embodiment of a method for determining preferred domain positioning on a registration website may comprise the steps of receiving a bid from a registry seeking such preferred placement for a domain that may be administered by the registry generating a quality score for the domain and determining the preferred placement based upon the bid and the quality score.

An example embodiment of a tool for enabling preferred domain positioning on a registration website may comprise a computer readable media storing instructions that when executed by a server computer cause the server to receive a bid from a registry seeking such preferred placement for a domain that may be administered by the registry generate a quality score for the domain and determine the preferred placement based upon the bid and the quality score.

The above features and advantages of the present inventions will be better understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present inventions will now be discussed in detail with regard to the attached drawing figures which were briefly described above. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth illustrating the Applicant s best mode for practicing the inventions and enabling one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the inventions. It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present inventions may be practiced without many of these specific details. In other instances well known machines structures and method steps have not been described in particular detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present inventions. Unless otherwise indicated like parts and method steps are referred to with like reference numerals.

A network is a collection of links and nodes e.g. multiple computers and or other devices connected together arranged so that information may be passed from one part of the network to another over multiple links and through various nodes. Examples of networks include the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks and wireless networks.

The Internet is a worldwide network of computers and computer networks arranged to allow the easy and robust exchange of information between computer users. Hundreds of millions of people around the world have access to computers connected to the Internet via Internet Service Providers ISPs . Content providers place multimedia information e.g. text graphics audio video animation and other forms of data at specific locations on the Internet referred to as webpages. Websites comprise a collection of connected or otherwise related webpages. The combination of all the websites and their corresponding webpages on the Internet is generally known as the World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web.

For Internet users and businesses alike the Internet continues to be increasingly valuable. More people use the Web for everyday tasks from social networking shopping banking and paying bills to consuming media and entertainment. E commerce is growing with businesses delivering more services and content across the Internet communicating and collaborating online and inventing new ways to connect with each other. Prevalent on the Web are multimedia websites some of which may offer and sell goods and services to individuals and organizations. Websites may consist of a single webpage but typically consist of multiple interconnected and related webpages. Menus and links may be used to move between different webpages within the website or to move to a different website as is known in the art. The interconnectivity of webpages enabled by the Internet can make it difficult for Internet users to tell where one website ends and another begins. Websites may be created using HyperText Markup Language HTML to generate a standard set of tags that define how the webpages for the website are to be displayed.

Websites unless extremely large and complex or have unusual traffic demands typically reside on a single server and are prepared and maintained by a single individual or entity. Some Internet users typically those that are larger and more sophisticated may provide their own hardware software and connections to the Internet. But many Internet users either do not have the resources available or do not want to create and maintain the infrastructure necessary to host their own websites. To assist such individuals or entities hosting companies exist that offer website hosting services. These hosting service providers typically provide the hardware software and electronic communication means necessary to connect multiple websites to the Internet. A single hosting service provider may literally host thousands of websites on one or more hosting servers.

Users of the Internet may access content providers websites using software known as an Internet browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX. After the browser has located the desired webpage it requests and receives information from the webpage typically in the form of an HTML document and then displays the webpage content for the user. The user then may view other webpages at the same website or move to an entirely different website using the browser.

Browsers are able to locate specific websites because each website resource and computer on the Internet has a unique Internet Protocol IP address. Presently there are two standards for IP addresses. The older IP address standard often called IP Version 4 IPv4 is a 32 bit binary number which is typically shown in dotted decimal notation where four 8 bit bytes are separated by a dot from each other e.g. 64.202.167.32 . The notation is used to improve human readability. The newer IP address standard often called IP Version 6 IPv6 or Next Generation Internet Protocol IPng is a 128 bit binary number. The standard human readable notation for IPv6 addresses presents the address as eight 16 bit hexadecimal words each separated by a colon e.g. 2EDC BA98 0332 0000 CF8A 000C 2154 7313 .

The domain name system DNS is the world s largest distributed computing system that enables access to any resource on the Internet by translating user friendly domains to IP addresses. The process of translating domains to IP addresses is known as Name Resolution. A DNS name resolution is the first step in the majority of Internet transactions. The DNS is a client server system that provides this name resolution service through a family of servers called Domain Name Servers. The hierarchical domain space is divided into administrative units called zones. A zone usually consists of a domain e.g. example.com and possibly one or more subdomains e.g. projects.example.com services.example.com . The authoritative data needed for performing the name resolution service is contained in a file called the zone file and the DNS servers hosting this file are called the authoritative name servers for that zone. The DNS clients that make use of the services provided by authoritative name servers may be of two types. One type is called a stub resolver that formulates and sends a query every time it receives a request from an application that requires Internet service e.g. a browser . The other type is called a caching also called recursive resolving name server that caches the name resolution responses it has obtained from the authoritative name servers and is thus able to serve multiple stub resolvers.

The zone file hosted on an authoritative name server consists of various types of records called Resource Records RRs . A type RRtype is associated with each DNS resource record. The code for these RRtypes is assigned by an international organization called Internet Assigned Names Authority IRNA . An RR of a given RRtype in a zone file provides a specific type of information. Some of the common RRtype codes are NS MX CNAME and A. An NS RR in a zone file gives the fully qualified domain name FQDN of the host that is considered the name server for that zone. For example an NS RR in the zone file of the zone example.com may give the information that the host ns1.projects.example.com is a name server for the domain projects.example.com. Similarly an MX RR gives the host name for a mail server for the zone. An A RR gives the IP address for a host in a domain within the zone. CNAME provides canonical name records and mapping of names in the zone file. A zone file generally consists of multiple RRs of a given RRtype with some exceptions e.g. there only can be SOA RR in a zone file . It can also have multiple RRs for the same domain and same or different RRtype e.g. multiple name servers or mail servers for a domain services.example.com .

The DNS infrastructure consists of many different types of DNS servers DNS clients and transactions between these entities. An important transaction in DNS is the one that provides the core service of DNS i.e. name resolution service and is called the DNS Query Response. A DNS Query Response transaction is made up of a query originating from a DNS client generically called a DNS resolver and response from a DNS name server. The response consists of one or more RRs. These RRs may be served from its own zone file for an authoritative name server or from a cache of RRs obtained from other name servers for a caching resolving recursive name servers . In this way the DNS serves as a global distributed database. Name servers serving zone files each contain a small portion of the global domain space and clients issue queries using a domain and a desired RRtype.

IP addresses however even in human readable notation are difficult for people to remember and use. A Uniform Resource Locator URL is much easier to remember and may be used to point to any computer directory or file on the Internet. A browser is able to access a website on the Internet through the use of a URL. The URL may include a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request combined with the website s Internet address also known as the website s domain. An example of a URL with a HTTP request and domain is http www.companyname.com. In this example the http identifies the URL as a HTTP request and the companyname.com is the domain.

Domains are much easier to remember and use than their corresponding IP addresses. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ICANN approves some Generic Top Level Domains gTLD and delegates the administrative responsibility to a particular organization a registry for maintaining an authoritative source for the registered domains within a TLD and their corresponding IP addresses. Such a registry may comprise any registry or other entity under contract or other agreement with ICANN to administer one or more TLDs a registry operator that may comprise any entity sub contracted with the registry to administer the TLD on behalf of the registry and make the TLD available to registrars for registration and or any agent operating on behalf of a registry to carry out the registries contractual obligations with ICANN. For certain TLDs e.g. .biz .info .name and .org the registry is also the authoritative source for contact information related to the domain and is referred to as a thick registry. For other TLDs e.g. .com and .net only the domain registrar identification and name server information is stored within the registry and a registrar is the authoritative source for the contact information related to the domain. Such registries are referred to as thin registries. Most gTLDs are organized through a central domain Shared Registration System SRS based on their TLD.

The process for registering a domain with .com .net .org or other TLDs allows an Internet user to use an ICANN accredited registrar to register their domain. For example if an Internet user John Doe wishes to register the domain mycompany.com John Doe may initially determine whether the desired domain is available by contacting a domain registrar. The Internet user may make this contact using the registrar s website and typing the desired domain into a field on the registrar s webpage created for this purpose.

Upon receiving the request from the Internet user the registrar may ascertain whether mycompany.com has already been registered by checking the SRS database associated with the TLD of the domain. The results of the search then may be displayed on the registrar s website to thereby notify the Internet user of the availability of the domain. If the domain is available the Internet user may proceed with the registration process. If the domain is not available for registration the Internet user may keep selecting alternative domains until an available domain is found. When a domain is registered the registrar may pay a registration fee to the registry responsible for administering the TLD used by the registered domain. Continuing with the previous paragraph s example upon registration of the domain mycompany.com although the registrar may have collected a fee from the domain registrant it also may have paid the registry the appropriate registration fee for the allocated .com TLD.

Currently there are substantially more domain registrars than domain registries. Because of recent rule changes promulgated by ICANN however Applicant anticipates growth in the number of TLDs available for domain registration. In summary ICANN has approved an expansion of the TLD scheme. For example rather than being limited to a few TLDs that supposedly relate the purpose of the domain e.g. .com for companies .org for non profit organizations .gov for governmental entities .edu for educational institutions etc. Internet users who have the proper infrastructure and financial backing to become ICANN approved may apply to become the registry for their own TLDs. For example the city of Scottsdale Ariz. could operate the .scottsdale TLD and The Go Daddy Group Inc. could operate the .godaddy TLD.

Under this emerging scheme TLD registries will need to compete for registrars to offer their TLDs for registration on their domain registration websites. Such TLD registries also will need to compete for preferred placement of their domains on the registrars domain registration websites. Applicant has determined that presently existing systems and methods do not provide optimal means for determining and enabling preferred domain positioning on such registrars registration websites. For these reasons there is a need for the systems and methods and related functionality as described herein.

As a non limiting example the methods illustrated in and all methods described herein may be performed by any central processing unit CPU in any computing system such as a microprocessor running on a server computer and executing instructions stored perhaps as scripts and or software in computer readable media accessible to the CPU such as a hard disk drive on a server computer. Such a server computer may be communicatively coupled to a network e.g. the Internet and may receive a bid from a registry seeking a preferred placement on a domain registration website for a domain administered by the registry Step . The domain registration website may comprise any website enabled domain purchase and or registration system such as that described in detail above and or may be available on GODADDY.COM s website and may be operated by any entity offering domains for registration including but not limited to a domain registry a domain registrar or a domain reseller. A domain name reseller may comprise any third party under agreement with a registrar for the purpose of reselling the registrar s products and or services.

The bid may come from any individual or entity desiring to have a domain offered for registration on a domain registration website e.g. a domain registry a domain registrar or a domain reseller . As a non limiting example a bidding registry may provide domain registry services domain registrar services or both. The bid may comprise any electronic communication or combination of data perhaps received by a server computer that seeks preferred placement on a domain registration website including but not limited to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request email message Short Message Service SMS message i.e. text message or as described with respect to below a function call on an Application Programming Interface API running on a server computer.

Alternatively the bid may be received via other means such as via a written typewritten faxed or mailed document or via oral communication. Irrespective of the format in which the bid is received it may comprise as non limiting examples the domain to be listed on the domain registration website the requested preferred placement on the domain registration website the bidder s contact information e.g. registry name address phone number IP address email address etc. and or an offer to pay a remuneration for the requested preferred placement. The remuneration offered suggested paid or agreed to be paid in exchange for the requested preferred domain placement may comprise any compensation including but not limited to financial compensation. Such financial compensation may be paid on a cost per click e.g. a price paid for each click on the domain listed on the domain registration website cost per impression e.g. a price paid for each appearance of the domain on the domain registration website cost per acquisition e.g. a price paid for each domain registration via the domain registration website flat fee e.g. a one time payment or recurring fee e.g. monthly or annual basis.

The illustrated embodiments place no limitation on the format that a domain may take. As non limiting examples the domain may comprise a top level domain TLD a generic top level domain gTLD a country code top level domain ccTLD a second level domain a premium domain and or a suggested domain. A TLD is a domain at the highest level of the DNS. Such TLDs are installed in the root zone of the name space. For lower level domains the TLD may comprise the last part of the domain i.e. the phrase following the last dot of the full domain . For example in www.example.com the term .com. is the TLD. A gTLD is a specific category of TLDs maintained by ICANN for use in the DNS that may as a non limiting example include the following TLDs .aero .asia .biz .cat .com .coop .info .jobs .mobi .museum .name .net .org .pro .tel and or .travel. ccTLDs may comprise TLDs reserved for use by countries sovereign states or a dependent territory e.g. .us .de .tv .me . A second level domain may comprise a root name concatenated to a top level domain administered by a registry. Thus it may be a domain that is directly below a TLD in the DNS hierarchy. Continuing with the previous example in www.example.com the term example.com is the second level domain of the .com TLD. The domain also may comprise any subdomain of a larger domain. Thus first.example.com and second.example.com are both subdomains of the example.com second level domain.

A premium domain may comprise any of the above described domains that may have a market value that is higher than the standard domain registration fee. Such higher market value may result from the premium domain incorporating words commonly searched in search engines and or keywords that may cause the premium domain to have a higher ranking on search engines. Premium domains also may have gone through an appraisal to establish their market value. A suggested domain may comprise any domain generated perhaps by software and or scripts running on a server computer in response to a customer request and presented to a customer for registration. Future iterations of the DNS may establish alternate domain formats perhaps using different alphanumeric structures latin or non latin character sets or alphabets or other scripts in human and or machine readable languages e.g. bar code IBN UBC and or RFID or other file types e.g. image audio or video files functioning as a domain or a similarly functioning resource locator which are explicitly contemplated by this patent application.

As described above the bid received from a registry Step may be part of a request seeking a preferred placement on a domain registration website for a domain administered by said registry. The preferred placement may comprise any location on the domain registration website that may be more likely to attract the attention of a user than an other location. The preferred placement location as non limiting examples may be determined by human factors usability or similar studies or may be a simple arbitrary or intuitive choice. As illustrated in it also may comprise a preferred placement within a vertical arrangement of a plurality of domains perhaps at the top of a list of a plurality of domains or simply a higher placement within such a list than the placement of other domains. The preferred placement may therefore as non limiting examples comprise a top most bottom most or more centered position in any such vertical list.

As can be seen in the domain containing the .com TLD is at the top of the vertical list which may be a preferred placement. Similarly the domain containing the .info TLD has a preferred i.e. higher placement than the domain containing the .net TLD. This concept may also apply to a horizontal arrangement of domains wherein perhaps the preferred placement comprises a left most right most or more centered position. illustrates that such preferred placement concepts may be applied within a drop down box on a domain registration website. In the .com TLD is at the top of the vertical list within the drop down which may be a preferred placement. Similarly the .info TLD has a preferred i.e. higher placement than the .net TLD.

Irrespective of the domain presentation mode on the registration website e.g. vertical list horizontal list drop down box etc. the plurality of domains amongst which a subject domain may be granted preferred placement need not comprise an exhaustive list of domains available for registration. Thus as a non limiting example perhaps only those domains with a bid quality score and or some combination thereof that exceed a predetermined value may be listed for registration on the domain registration website with domains having better bids quality scores and or some combination thereof receiving preferred placements in relation to other domains. Those domains with a bid quality score and or some combination thereof that does not exceed the predetermined value may perhaps not appear on the registration website.

Returning to the method further may comprise the step of generating perhaps by software and or scripts running on at least one server computer communicatively coupled to a network a quality score for the domain Step . The quality score may comprise any metric e.g. the result of a quantitative or qualitative analysis an alphanumeric score a star rating system etc. that indicates the relative value of a subject domain when compared to a plurality of other domains. As a non limiting example the quality score may be a function of a price a performance a market share and or a customer desirability of the domain.

Thus variables that may factor into the quality score may comprise as a non exclusive list 1 domain Zone File availability 2 registry registrar connection quality 3 quality of registry customer or technical support provided to registrars 4 the existence of domain registration requirements implemented by the registry that may limit the pool of available domain registrants 5 costs and fees charged to the registrar by the registry for domain registration for both new and renewal registrations 6 projected domain growth in market 7 the domain s percentage of new domain registrations 8 the number of domains registered at a specific registrar that include the subject domain 9 WHOIS data availability and quality i.e. contact data integrity and validity 10 domain registry thickness i.e. is the domain administered by a thick or thin registry 11 frequency in which domains comprising the subject TLD are the subject of availability checks 12 overall domain registry reliability and availability e.g. uptime command execution success failure and domain registration refund percentages 13 domain registration period in years supported at the registry 14 domain renewal rate and 15 domain transfer support and ease i.e. does the registry support simple automated domain transfers Or is it difficult to move domains between registrars .

Alternatively the quality score could comprise a single variable such as the total volume i.e. number of domain registrations perhaps the number of domains registered by a domain registrar within a 30 day period. The quality score could also comprise a number of domain registration years DRYs or a number of DRYs registered by a domain registrar within a 30 day period. A DRY may comprise a domain multiplied by the number of years for which it is registered. For example a domain registered for 5 years would comprise 5 DRYs. Three domains registered for 3 year terms each would comprise 9 DRYs.

The preferred placement may then be determined perhaps by software and or scripts running on at least one server which may be based upon the bid and or the quality score Step . As described in detail above the preferred placement may comprise any location on the domain registration website that may be more likely to attract the attention of a user than an other location. As a non limiting example the preferred placement may be determined by a mathematical function that calculates a score based upon the dollar value of a bid and the numerical value of a quality score. A better e.g. higher score may result in a better e.g. more optimal placement on a domain registration website.

As a non limiting example the weighted bid index may be calculated according to the following formula weighted bid index volume of domain registrations registered by a domain registrar within a 30 day period financial value of the bid predetermined financial credit . Using the .com TLD for example if Registrar A registered 1000 .com domains in the past 30 days the .com Registry bid 100 for Registry A to offer .com domains on its registration website and Registy A used a predetermined credit of 1 the weighted bid index would be 1000 100 1 or 101 000. TLDs with higher weighted bid indices would obtain better preferred placement on the website while TLDs with lesser weighted bid indices would obtain less preferential placement.

The domain may then be displayed in the preferred placement Step on the domain registration website perhaps by software and or scripts running on at least one server for registration. Domain registration may be accomplished by any domain registration method known in the art or developed in the future perhaps via a website enabled domain purchase and registration system such as that described in detail above and or may be available on GODADDY.COM s website. Alternatively domain registration may be accomplished via human to human communication perhaps via a telephone call or in person meeting. Domains may be registered by as non limiting examples any individual or entity including but not limited to a domain registry domain registrar hosting provider and or software application developer or distributor.

Domain registration availability may be determined at any point in the methods described herein perhaps by software and or scripts running on at least one server that may ascertain whether the domain has already been registered by checking the SRS database associated with the domain. As an additional non limiting example any of the systems and or methods may be used as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0199520 entitled Method for Checking the Availability of a Domain Name which is assigned to The Go Daddy Group Inc. and incorporated herein by reference. Alternatively any method of determining domain registration availability known in the art or developed in the future may be used.

A tool enabling preferred domain positioning on a registration website may comprise computer readable media comprising a plurality of instructions that when executed by at least one server computer may cause the server computer perhaps via its central processing unit s to receive a bid from a registry seeking a preferred placement on a domain registration website for a domain administered by the registry Step generate a quality score for the domain Step and determine the preferred placement based upon the bid and the quality score Step . The instructions on the computer readable media may further cause the server computer to display the domain on the domain registration website in the preferred placement Step .

The computer readable media may comprise any data storage medium capable of storing instructions for execution by a computing device. It may comprise as non limiting examples magnetic optical semiconductor paper or any other data storage media a database or other network storage device hard disk drives portable disks CD ROM DVD RAM ROM flash memory and or holographic data storage. The instructions may as non limiting examples comprise software and or scripts stored in the computer readable media that may be stored locally in a server computer or client computer or alternatively may be stored in a highly distributed format in a plurality of computer readable media accessible via the network perhaps via a grid or cloud computing environment.

The example embodiments herein place no limitation on network configuration or connectivity. Thus as non limiting examples the network could comprise the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks wireless networks or any combination thereof. Examples of client computers that may be used may include a desktop computer a laptop computer a hand held computer a terminal a television a television set top box a cellular phone a wireless phone a wireless hand held device an Internet access device a rich client thin client or any other client functional with a client server computing architecture.

Server computers and client computers may be communicatively coupled to the network via any method of network connection known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to wired wireless modem dial up satellite cable modem Digital Subscriber Line DSL Asymmetric Digital Subscribers Line ASDL Virtual Private Network VPN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN X.25 Ethernet token ring Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI IP over Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Infrared Data Association IrDA wireless WAN technologies T1 Frame Relay Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet PPPoE and or any combination thereof.

The domain registration website may comprise any collection of data and or files accessible perhaps via a client computer or server computer communicatively coupled to the network . The at least one server computer and or any other server described herein could be any computer or program that provides services to other computers programs or users either in the same computer or over a computer network. As non limiting examples the at least one server computer may comprise an application communication mail database proxy fax file media web peer to peer or standalone server and may use any server format known in the art or developed in the future possibly a shared hosting server a virtual dedicated hosting server a dedicated hosting server or any combination thereof .

Another tool enabling preferred domain positioning on a registration website may comprise an application programming interface API running on at least one server computer communicatively coupled to a network . The API may comprise computer readable code that when executed by at least one server computer causes the API to receive from a registry a procedure call i.e. function call comprising a bid seeking a preferred placement on a domain registration website for a domain administered by the registry . Responsive to receipt of the procedure call the API may display the domain in the preferred placement on the website . As described in detail above the preferred placement may be based upon the bid and a quality score for the domain.

The API may comprise a software to software interface that specifies the protocol defining how independent computer programs interact or communicate with each other. The API may allow the bidding party s e.g. the registry s software to communicate and interact with the described inventions perhaps over the network through a series of function calls requests for services . It may comprise an interface running on a server computer that supports function calls made of the described inventions by other computer programs perhaps those utilized by a registry seeking preferred domain placement on a domain registration website . The API may comprise any API type known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to request style Berkeley Sockets Transport Layer Interface TLI Representational State Transfer REST SOAP Remote Procedure Calls RPC Standard Query Language SQL file transfer message delivery and or any combination thereof.

Other embodiments and uses of the above inventions will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the specification and practice of the inventions disclosed herein. The specification and examples given should be considered exemplary only and it is contemplated that the appended claims will cover any other such embodiments or modifications as fall within the true scope of the inventions.

The Abstract accompanying this specification is provided to enable the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and gist of the technical disclosure and in no way intended for defining determining or limiting the present inventions or any of its embodiments.

