---

title: Immunogenic HPV L2-containing VLPs and related compositions, constructs, and therapeutic methods
abstract: The invention provides immunotherapeutic and prophylactic bacteriophage viral-like particle (VLPs) which are useful in the treatment and prevention of human papillomavirus (HPV) infections and related disorders, including cervical cancer and persistent infections associated with HPV. Related compositions (e.g. vaccines), nucleic acid constructs, and therapeutic methods are also provided. VLPs and related compositions of the invention induce high titer antibody responses against HPV L2 and protect against HPV challenge in vivo. VLPs, VLP-containing compositions, and therapeutic methods of the invention induce an immunogenic response against HPV infection, confer immunity against HPV infection, protect against HPV infection, and reduce the likelihood of infection by HPV infection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09533057&OS=09533057&RS=09533057
owner: STC.UNM
number: 09533057
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110208
---
This application is a United States national stage application based upon and claims priority from International Patent Application No. PCT US2011 024030 filed Feb. 8 2011 entitled Immunogenic HPV L2 Containing VLPs and Related Compositions Constructs and Therapeutic Methods said application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional applications 61 302 836 filed Feb. 9 2010 of same title and 61 334 826 filed May 14 2010 of same title the entire contents of which applications are incorporated by reference herein.

This patent application was supported by NIH Grant Nos. U19 AI08408 and GM042901. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

In one aspect the invention provides immunogenic HPV L2 containing viral like particles VLPs . Related compositions e.g. vaccines nucleic acid constructs and therapeutic methods are also provided.

In one aspect the invention relates generally to virus like particles and more specifically to a platform for peptide display based on VLPs of the RNA bacteriophage PP7.

In certain aspects the VLPs are comprised of a coat polypeptide of the bacteriophages PP7 or MS2 wherein the coat protein is modified by insertion of peptide antigens derived from HPV L2 the recombinant coat protein is expressed to produce and VLP wherein the HPV L2 peptide is displayed on the surface of the VLP.

Immunogenic VLPs and related compositions of the invention induce high titer antibody responses against HPV L2 and protect against HPV challenge in an in vivo animal infection model.

Human Papillomavirus HPV is the most common sexually transmitted infectious agent worldwide and also is estimated to cause 500 000 cases of cancer a year 34 . HPV infection is also associated with a variety of other diseases including cutaneous and genital warts. Over 100 different HPV types have been identified but the most common HPV associated cancer cervical cancer is associated with infection by one of a subset of about 15 18 HPVs termed high risk types. Two of the high risk types HPV16 and HPV18 account for approximately 70 of all cases of cervical cancer and six other high risk types types 45 31 33 52 58 and 35 account for an additional 25 of all cases 33 .

Conventional approaches for developing an HPV vaccine were not possible because of the lack of a tissue culture system for robust HPV propagation. However in the early 1990s it was discovered that the L1 major capsid protein of HPV could self assemble into virus like particles VLPs that are structurally and antigenically similar to infectious virus 21 24 25 43 51 . HPV VLPs are highly immunogenic they induce high titer antibody responses upon vaccination of animals and people 44 . These results paved the way for the development of the two commercially available STI HPV vaccines. Gardasil developed by Merck contains L1 VLPs derived from two high risk HPV types 16 and 18 and two low risk HPVs associated with genital warts 6 and 11 . Cervarix developed by GlaxoSmithKline contains HPV16 and 18 L1 VLPs. These vaccines have excellent safety profiles are highly effective at preventing infection and disease and appear to induce long lasting antibody responses 26 .

Although some cross reactivity has been observed between closely related HPV genotypes 46 the protection provided upon vaccination with L1 VLPs is largely HPV type specific. For example women who are vaccinated with HPV16 L1 VLPs are completely protected against HPV16 related disease cervical intraepithelial neoplasia CIN but not against disease caused by other high risk HPV types 26 31 . The type specific nature of neutralizing antibodies induced by HPV16 L1 VLPs has also been confirmed using in vitro neutralization assays 35 42 . Taking into account the types covered by the current vaccine and the possibility of some partial cross protection it is estimated that with complete vaccine coverage Gardasil and Cervarix could provide protection against 70 80 of cervical cancers. Yet this figure may be an overestimate 50 of infected women are infected with multiple carcinogenic types. Because infection with HPV16 and 18 can cause cancer more rapidly than other high risk types co infection with HPV16 and HPV18 may mask the true risk of cancer caused by other HPV types. Because vaccinated populations are still at risk for cancer the American Cancer Society has recommended that vaccinated women continue to be subjected to Pap screening on an annual basis at an annual cost of 4 5 billion in the United States alone.

Papillomaviruses encode two capsid proteins L1 and L2. Upon expression the major capsid protein L1 can spontaneously self assemble into pentamers that further assemble into VLPs comprised of 360 copies of L1. The minor capsid protein L2 is not required for VLP formation but is required for formation of infectious virions and pseudovirions . Up to 72 copies of L2 can be incorporated in a VLP and viral infectivity correlates with L2 content 5 .

Although neither natural infection nor immunization with L1 L2 VLPs elicits anti L2 antibody responses vaccination with bacterially expressed L2 protein or peptides derived from L2 results in the production of neutralizing antibodies that are protective in animal models 1 7 13 19 30 . The somewhat contradictory data indicating that L2 is poorly immunogenic yet is the target of highly neutralizing antibodies can be explained by recent studies that shed light on the role of L2 during viral infection. Structural studies have shown that L2 is poorly exposed on the surface of virions 5 . However it has been proposed that after the virus binds to its primary cellular receptor the capsid undergoes a conformational change that exposes the amino terminus of L2 15 45 . Once exposed 12 amino acids at the N terminus of L2 are cleaved by a cellular protein furin exposing one or more L2 neutralizing epitopes and it is theorized allow virions to interact with a cellular coreceptor 15 39 .

Because L2 neutralizing epitopes are not exposed until after HPV binding normal infection fails to induce anti L2 neutralizing antibody responses. Thus there has been little evolutionary pressure for L2 to undergo antigenic variation. Unlike L1 specific neutralizing antibodies L2 specific neutralizing antibodies are broadly cross neutralizing 41 suggesting that neutralizing epitopes on L2 are conserved across HPVs and even papillomaviruses PVs that infect different species. For example antisera raised against a peptide representing amino acids 1 88 from bovine papillomavirus type 1 BPV 1 L2 can cross neutralize a diverse panel of mucosal and cutaneous HPVs 36 . Similarly vaccination with HPV16 and BPV 1 L2 peptides protects rabbits against challenge with two different rabbit papillomaviruses 19 .

In principle L2 vaccines may be able to overcome the high production cost and type specific limitations of L1 VLP vaccines. Unfortunately however the neutralizing titers produced upon L2 vaccination are considerably lower than for L1 VLP vaccines particularly against heterologous HPV types 41 . Therefore it is likely that an L2 vaccine will only be effective if its immunogenicity is enhanced.

Virus like particles VLPs make excellent vaccines. They are non infectious often easier to produce than actual viruses and because the regularity of their capsid structure presents viral epitopes as dense highly repetitive arrays that strongly stimulate B cells they are highly immunogenic. VLPs are comprised of one or more proteins arranged geometrically into dense repetitive arrays. These structures are largely unique to microbial antigens and the mammalian immune system has apparently evolved to respond vigorously to this arrangement of antigens. B cells specifically recognize and respond strongly to the ordered array of densely spaced repetitive elements characteristic of virus surfaces 2 18 . Highly repetitive antigens provoke oligomerization of the membrane associated immunoglobulin Ig molecules that constitute the B cell receptor BCR 3 . There is evidence that the Ig crosslinking mediated by multivalent antigens leads to the formation of highly stable BCR signaling microdomains that are associated with increased signaling to the B cell 48 . This signaling stimulates B cell proliferation migration and upregulation of both major histocompatibility complex MHC class II and the co stimulatory molecules that permit subsequent interactions with T helper cells that are required to trigger IgG secretion affinity maturation and the generation of long lived memory B cells 9 . Consequently we and others have shown that multivalent antigens such as VLPs can activate B cells at much lower concentrations than monomeric antigens 4 16 17 32 . Hence VLPs are innately immunogenic they induce high titer and long lasting antibody responses at low doses often without requiring adjuvants 22 50 .

VLPs can be used as the basis for vaccines targeting the virus from which they were derived the Hepatitis B virus vaccine and aforementioned HPV vaccine are two clinically approved VLP vaccines other VLP vaccines are in clinical trials . However they also can be used as platforms to display practically any epitope in a highly immunogenic multivalent format. Heterologous antigens displayed at high density on the surface of VLPs exhibit the same high immunogenicity as unmodified VLPs. VLPs derived from a variety of different viruses have been exploited in this manner to induce antibody responses against heterologous targets that are poorly immunogenic in their native contexts. Although the VLP platform strategy has typically been applied to target antigens derived from pathogens VLP display can effectively induce antibody responses against practically any antigen. One example is the vaccine for nicotine addiction designed to assist smokers who are trying to quit developed by a biotechnology company Cytos Biotechnology. This vaccine consists of nicotine conjugated at high copy number to the surface of VLPs derived from a bacteriophage. In phase II clinical trials VLPs displaying nicotine were well tolerated and induced strong nicotine specific IgG responses in 100 of immunized subjects 14 . Even self antigens which are normally subject to the mechanisms of B cell tolerance are immunogenic when displayed at high density on the surface of VLPs. Vaccines have been developed against self molecules involved in several different diseases including amyloid beta Alzheimers 12 27 TNF arthritis 10 CCR5 HIV infection 8 11 gastrin cancer unpublished data IgE allergy unpublished data and others. VLP based vaccines developed by pharmaceutical companies targeting amyloid beta and angiotensin II hypertension are currently being evaluated in clinical trials positive results from the trial of vaccine targeting angiotensin II as a vaccine for hypertension were reported in the spring of 2008 49 .

HPV vaccines that target the L2 protein have been described in a variety of other journal articles patents and patent applications.

For example Kawana et al. describe a peptide representing amino acids 108 120 from HPV16 L2 that induces neutralizing antibodies effective against HPV16 and HPV11 23 . The information obtained from these results was said to be useful for developing a prophylactic peptide vaccine that prevents infection with genital HPVs in humans.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 174 532 and PCT US2006 003601 described the use of the N terminal portion of papillomavirus L2 protein or a prophylactically effective peptide fragment thereof or a prophylactically effective peptide derivative sequence thereof in the production of a medicament suitable for use as a prophylactic agent against papillomavirus infection in mammals.

U.S. Patent Application Document No. 2008 0213293 describes treating or preventing respiratory papillomatosis by immunizing either a mother or child before during or after delivery. Immunity may be induced with a vaccine comprising a HPV peptide antigen fused to a viral protein or other antigen. Antibodies and cells may be recovered from an animal previously vaccinated with the same vaccine. Of particular interest is the use of HPV L2 peptides designating a neutralizing epitope of HPV.

PCT US2008 053498 described the use of papillomavirus L2 polypeptides produced in a plant expression system as a prophylactic HPV vaccine.

PCT WO 93 00436 describes papillomavirus L2 protein for use in the production of a medicament for use in medicine particularly for use in the prophylaxis or therapy of papillomavirus tumours.

PCT 2004 052395 describes a vaccine composition comprising an HPV L2 peptide in physical association with an HPV virus like particle VLP .

PCT 2008 082719 describes a composition that includes a papillomavirus virus like particle including an L1 protein or polypeptide and a chimeric protein or polypeptide that contains at least a portion of an L2 protein 20 and a protein or polypeptide fragment including a first epitope and a DNA molecule encoding a protein or polypeptide including a second epitope.

It is an object of the invention to provide a virus like particle VLP virus like particle comprising a bacteriophage single chain coat polypeptide dimer preferably based upon a MS2 or PP7 bacteriophage and a HPV L2 peptide wherein the HPV L2 peptide is displayed on the virus like particle and said VLP encapsidates bacteriophage mRNA such that the composition is immunotherapeutic and prophylactic for HPV induced disorders.

It is another object of the invention to provide nucleic acid constructs which express a VLP comprising a bacteriophage single chain coat polypeptide dimer preferably based upon a MS2 or PP7 bacteriophage and a HPV L2 peptide wherein the HPV L2 peptide is displayed on the viral like particle and wherein said VLP encapsidates bacteriophage mRNA.

It is another object of the invention to provide a method of instilling immunogenicity or prophylaxis to a HPV infection and or a HPV related disorder in a patient at risk for such an infection or disorder.

The development and commercialization of the HPV vaccines based on L1 VLPs has been a significant public health breakthrough towards the goal of eradicating HPV associated cancers. However the current vaccines largely elicit type specific immunity meaning that it may be impossible to use L1 VLPs to provide complete protection against the multiple high risk genotypes associated with cancer. Immunization with HPV L2 induces antibodies that broadly neutralize divergent HPV strains but L2 is poorly immunogenic. As a consequence of the limitations of prior art vaccines therefore new strategies for identifying antigenic epitopes and eliciting high titer anti L2 antibody responses are needed.

The invention provides immunotherapeutic and prophylactic bacteriophage viral like particle VLPs which are useful in the treatment and prevention of human papillomavirus HPV infections and related disorders including cervical cancer and persistent infections associated with HPV. Related compositions e.g. vaccines nucleic acid constructs and therapeutic methods are also provided. VLPs and related compositions of the invention induce high titer antibody responses against HPV L2 and protect against HPV pseudovirus challenge in vivo. VLPs VLP containing compositions and therapeutic methods of the invention induce an immunogenic response against HPV infection confer immunity against HPV infection protect against HPV infection and reduce the likelihood of infection by and or inhibit HPV infection.

Because antibodies that are specific for highly conserved epitopes within L2 are able to neutralize infection by a broad range of HPV types HPV L2 targeting VLPs and related compositions e.g. vaccines of the invention provide a more comprehensive protection against infection by multiple HPV types.

In one aspect the invention provides a VLP comprising a bacteriophage single chain coat polypeptide dimer and a HPV L2 peptide wherein the HPV L2 peptide is displayed on the VLP and wherein the VLP is immuno prophylactic for HPV induced disorders.

Certain aspects of the invention reflect that the single chain dimer of PP7 coat protein can tolerate the insertion of a wide variety of peptides including peptides derived from the L2 protein of different strains of HPV or papillomavirus from a variety of non human animal species as otherwise set forth herein and is highly immunogenic.

Certain aspects of the invention also reflect that in an animal in vivo challenge model a PP7 VLP displays a broadly cross type neutralizing epitope from the HPV minor capsid protein L2 and induces antibodies that protect against homologous and heterologous HPV infection. These sequences preferably represent at least 5 consecutive amino acids preferably from 5 consecutive amino acids to 30 consecutive amino acids including 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 and 30 consecutive amino acids within this range at least 10 consecutive amino acids 15 consecutive amino acids 20 consecutive amino acids 25 consecutive amino acids or 30 amino acids of HPV L2 peptide amino acid sequences 11 125 preferably amino acids 14 40 11 36 17 36 11 31 preferably amino acids 17 31 of L2 peptide of a variety of HPV strains as otherwise described herein especially including strains 16 45 and or 58 as well as HPV strains 1 5 6 11 and 18. In the case of sequences 17 31 of papilloma virus strains HPV1 HPV2 HPV5 HPV6 HPV8 HPV11 HPV16 HPV18 HPV31 HPV33 HPV35 HPV39 HPV45 HPV51 HPV52 HPV56 HPV58 HPV59 HPV66 HPV68 HPV73 CRPV and BPV1 see hereof especially including HPV strains 16 45 and or 58 as well as of HPV strains 1 5 6 11 and 48 it is noted that the sequence of this region of HPV peptide L2 is relatively conserved across diverse HPV isolates and the use of each of these sequences within the VLPs according to the present invention may instill immunogenic protection against a broad array of a variety of strains of HPV.

L2 peptide sequences as described above from any of HPV strains HPV1 HPV2 HPV3 HPV4 HPV5 HPV6 HPV7 HPV8 HPV9 HPV10 HPV11 HPV12 HPV13 HPV14 HPV15 HPV16 HPV17 HPV18 HPV19 HPV20 HPV21 HPV22 HPV23 HPV24 HPV25 HPV26 HPV27 HPV28 HPV29 HPV30 HPV31 HPV32 HPV33 HPV34 HPV35 HPV36 HPV37 HPV38 HPV39 HPV40 HPV41 HPV42 HPV43 HPV44 HPV45 HPV46 HPV47 HPV48 HPV49 HPV50 HPV51 HPV52 HPV53 HPV54 HPV55 HPV56 HPV57 HPV58 HPV59 HPV60 HPV61 HPV62 HPV63 HPV64 HPV65 HPV66 HPV67 HPV68 HPV69 HPV70 HPV71 HPV72 HPV73 HPV74 HPV75 HPV76 HPV77 HPV78 HPV79 HPV80 HPV81 HPV82 HPV83 HPV84 HPV85 HPV86 HPV87 HPV88 HPV89 HPV90 HPV91 HPV92 HPV93 HPV94 HPV95 HPV96 HPV97 HPV98 HPV99 HPV100 and or animal papillomaviruses bovine papillomavirus type 1 BPV1 bovine papillomavirus type 2 BPV2 bovine papillomavirus type 4 BPV4 cottontail rabbit papillomavirus CRPV deer papillomavirus DPV European elk papillomavirus EEPV canine oral papillomavirus COPV Rhesus monkey papillomavirus RnPV and rabbit oral papillomavirus ROPV may be displayed by the VLPs according to the present invention.

Representative L2 peptides for use in VLPs according to the present invention include the following for each of the above referenced HPV strains and animal PVs note that all of the amino acid numbers listed below are referenced based upon the sequence of HPV 16 L2 and that for each of the lengths of amino acids each length within the length range is understood to be disclosed 

Linear peptides of lengths varying from 5 30 amino acids from anywhere in L2 from the list of HPV and animal PVs set forth above 

The following sequences of the above referenced PVs or portions of at least 5 10 or 15 amino acids thereof 

In another aspect the invention provides a composition comprising a VLP comprising a bacteriophage single chain coat polypeptide dimer and a HPV L2 peptide as otherwise described above wherein the HPV L2 peptide is displayed on the VLP and encapsidates bacteriophage mRNA and wherein the composition is immunotherapeutic and prophylactic for HPV induced disorders.

In another aspect the invention provides a composition comprising a VLP displaying L2 peptides from two or more strains of HPV such as amino acids 17 31 from both HPV16 and HPV18 L2 on the same VLP and wherein the composition is immunotherapeutic and prophylactic for HPV induced disorders.

In certain aspects the invention provides a VLP or a composition comprising a VLP wherein the VLP is made by transforming a prokaryote with a nucleic acid construct comprising 

 b a coding sequence of a bacteriophage single chain coat polypeptide dimer preferably a PP7 coat polypeptide dimer which is operably associated with the promoter and which is modified to contain a nucleotide sequence encoding a HPV L2 peptide 

In certain aspects VLPs and VLP containing compositions e.g. vaccines of the invention are comprised of VLPs comprising HPV L2 peptides from different HPV types. In other aspects VLPs and VLP containing compositions of the invention comprise hybrid VLPs that display HPV L2 sequences derived from multiple HPV types.

In certain aspects the invention provides a VLP or a composition comprising a VLP wherein the VLP is made by transforming a prokaryote with a nucleic acid construct comprising either 

 1 a a bacterial or bacteriophage promoter which is operably associated with a coding sequence of a bacteriophage preferably PP7 single chain coat polypeptide dimer wherein the coat polypeptide dimer coding sequence is modified to i define a first restriction site which is located in the downstream portion of the coat polypeptide dimer coding sequence and which is either positioned 5 to or located within preferably within the sequence which defines the coat polypeptide dimer AB loop and ii contain a nucleotide sequence encoding a HPV L2 peptide b a second restriction site positioned 3 to the coat polypeptide dimer coding sequence c an antibiotic resistance gene which is operably associated with the promoter and d a replication origin for replication in a prokaryotic cell or 2 a a bacterial or bacteriophage promoter which is operably associated with a coding sequence of a bacteriophage preferably PP7 single chain coat polypeptide dimer wherein the coat polypeptide dimer coding sequence is modified to i define a first restriction site which is located in the downstream portion of the coat polypeptide dimer coding sequence and which is either positioned 5 to or located within preferably within the sequence which defines the coat polypeptide dimer AB loop and ii contain a nucleotide sequence encoding a HPV L2 peptide b a second restriction site positioned 3 to the coat polypeptide dimer coding sequence c a PCR primer positioned 3 to the second restriction site d an antibiotic resistance gene which is operably associated with the promoter and e a replication origin for replication in a prokaryotic cell or 3 a a bacterial or bacteriophage promoter which is operably associated with a coding sequence of a bacteriophage preferably MS2 single chain coat polypeptide dimer wherein the coat polypeptide dimer coding sequence is modified to i define a codon sequence positioned 5 to that portion of the sequence which defines the coat polypeptide dimer AB loop and ii contain a nucleotide sequence encoding a HPV L2 peptide b a restriction site positioned 3 to the coat polypeptide dimer coding sequence c a PCR primer positioned 3 to the second restriction site d an antibiotic resistance gene for resistance to a first antibiotic wherein the resistance gene is operably associated with the promoter e a helper phage gene modified to contain a second antibiotic resistance gene conferring resistance to a second antibiotic and f a replication origin for replication in a prokaryotic cell.

In certain aspects the coding sequence of the bacteriophage single chain coat polypeptide dimer further comprises a transcription terminator positioned 5 to the second restriction site.

In certain aspects the invention provides a method of inoculating a subject at risk of developing a HPV related disorder the method comprising administering to the subject one or more doses of a composition comprising a HPV L2 containing VLP as described herein. In other aspects the invention provides a method of treating a subject who is at risk of developing a HPV related disorder and who has undergone HPV seroconversion the method comprising administering to the subject one or more doses of a composition comprising a HPV L2 containing VLP as described herein. In still other aspects the invention provides a method of treating a subject who has developed a HPV related disorder the method comprising administering to the subject one or more doses of a composition comprising a HPV L2 containing VLP as described herein.

Previously we described the use of VLPs of the RNA bacteriophage MS2 for peptide display. By genetically fusing two copies of the MS2 coat protein we created a single chain dimer with increased thermodynamic stability and vastly improved tolerance of insertions in its AB loop 38 . The MS2 coat protein dimer was widely tolerant of genetic insertion of defined peptide sequences as well as random peptide insertions. Recombinant MS2 VLPs elicited high titer IgG antibodies against the inserted sequences. Moreover MS2 coat protein single chain dimers produced correctly assembled VLPs that specifically encapsidated the mRNA encoding their synthesis raising the possibility that they could be used in affinity selections protocols analogous to filamentous phage display.

Since MS2 is only one member of a large family of bacteriophages whose individual members share similar molecular biology we suspected that following similar design principles other phage VLPs could be adapted to this same purpose. For example here we describe the engineering of VLPs of PP7 a bacteriophage of for the purposes of peptide display.

PP7 VLPs offer several potential advantages and improvements over the MS2 VLP. First the particles are dramatically more stable thermodynamically because of the presence of stabilizing inter subunit disulfide bonds. For many practical applications including vaccines increased stability is a desirable trait. Second PP7 VLPs are not cross reactive immunologically with those of MS2. This could be important in applications where serial administration of VLPs may be necessary. Third we theorized that the correct folding and assembly of the PP7 VLP might be more resistant to the destabilizing effects of peptide insertion or that it might at least show tolerance of some peptides not tolerated in MS2 VLPs. The single chain dimer of PP7 coat protein can tolerate the insertion of a wide variety of peptides is highly immunogenic and packages the RNA that directs its synthesis. Moreover we show in an in vivo challenge model that a PP7 VLP displaying a broadly cross type neutralizing epitope from the HPV minor capsid protein L2 induces antibodies that protect against homologous and heterologous HPV infection.

Thus we describe the use of recombinant VLPs derived RNA bacteriophages to induce high titer antibody responses against L2 that protect against multiple diverse HPV types.

These and other aspects of the invention are described further in the Detailed Description of the Invention.

In accordance with the present invention there may be employed conventional molecular biology microbiology and recombinant DNA techniques within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. See e.g. Sambrook et al 2001 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Ausubel ed. 1994 Current Protocols in Molecular Biology Volumes I III Celis ed. 1994 Cell Biology A Laboratory Handbook Volumes I III Coligan ed. 1994 Current Protocols in Immunology Volumes I III Gait ed. 1984 Oligonucleotide Synthesis Hames Higgins eds. 1985 Nucleic Acid Hybridization Hames Higgins eds. 1984 Transcription And Translation Freshney ed. 1986 Animal Cell Culture IRL Press 1986 Immobilized Cells And Enzymes Perbal 1984 A Practical Guide To Molecular Cloning. 

Where a range of values is provided it is understood that each intervening value to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be included in the smaller ranges is also encompassed within the invention subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range includes one or both of the limits ranges excluding either both of those included limits are also included in the invention.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can also be used in the practice or testing of the present invention the preferred methods and materials are now described.

It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a and and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The term patient or subject is used throughout the specification within context to describe an animal generally a mammal and preferably a human to whom treatment including prophylactic treatment prophylaxis with the immunogenic compositions and or vaccines according to the present invention is provided. For treatment of those infections conditions or disease states which are specific for a specific animal such as a human patient the term patient refers to that specific animal. In most instances the patient or subject of the present invention is a human patient of either or both genders.

The term effective is used herein unless otherwise indicated to describe a number of VLP s or an amount of a VLP containing composition which in context is used to produce or effect an intended result whether that result relates to the prophylaxis and or therapy of an HPV induced or HPV related disorder or disease state or as otherwise described herein. The term effective subsumes all other effective amount or effective concentration terms including the term therapeutically effective which are otherwise described or used in the present application.

As used herein the term polynucleotide refers to a polymeric form of nucleotides of any length either ribonucleotides or deoxynucleotides and includes both double and single stranded DNA and RNA. A polynucleotide may include nucleotide sequences having different functions such as coding regions and non coding regions such as regulatory sequences e.g. promoters or transcriptional terminators . A polynucleotide can be obtained directly from a natural source or can be prepared with the aid of recombinant enzymatic or chemical techniques. A polynucleotide can be linear or circular in topology. A polynucleotide can be for example a portion of a vector such as an expression or cloning vector or a fragment.

As used herein the term polypeptide refers broadly to a polymer of two or more amino acids joined together by peptide bonds. The term polypeptide also includes molecules which contain more than one polypeptide joined by a disulfide bond or complexes of polypeptides that are joined together covalently or noncovalently as multimers e g. dimers tetramers . Thus the terms peptide oligopeptide and protein are all included within the definition of polypeptide and these terms are used interchangeably. It should be understood that these terms do not connote a specific length of a polymer of amino acids nor are they intended to imply or distinguish whether the polypeptide is produced using recombinant techniques chemical or enzymatic synthesis or is naturally occurring.

The term single chain dimer refers to a normally dimeric protein whose two subunits have been genetically chemically through covalent bonds fused into a single polypeptide chain. Specifically in the present invention single chain dimer versions of PP7 coat proteins were constructed. Each of these proteins is naturally a dimer of identical polypeptide chains. In the PP7 coat protein dimers the N terminus of one subunit lies in close physical proximity to the C terminus of the companion subunit. Single chain coat protein dimers were produced using recombinant DNA methods by duplicating the DNA coding sequence of the coat proteins and then fusing them to one another in tail to head fashion. The result is a single polypeptide chain in which the coat protein amino acid appears twice with the C terminus of the upstream copy covalently fused to the N terminus of the downstream copy. Normally wild type the two subunits are associated only through noncovalent interactions between the two chains. In the single chain dimer these noncovalent interactions are maintained but the two subunits have additionally been covalently tethered to one another. This greatly stabilizes the folded structure of the protein and confers to it its high tolerance of peptide insertions as described above.

This application makes frequent reference to coat protein s AB loop . The RNA phage coat proteins possess a conserved tertiary structure. The PP7 coat proteins for example possess a structure wherein each of the polypeptide chains is folded into of a number of strands. The strands A and B form a hairpin with a three amino acid loop connecting the two strands at the top of the hairpin where it is exposed on the surface of the VLP. As evidenced in the present application peptides inserted into the AB loop are exposed on the surface of the VLP and are strongly immunogenic.

The amino acid residues described herein are preferred to be in the L isomeric form. However residues in the D isomeric form can be substituted for any L amino acid residue as long as the desired functional is retained by the polypeptide. NHrefers to the free amino group present at the amino terminus of a polypeptide. COOH refers to the free carboxy group present at the carboxy terminus of a polypeptide.

The term valency is used to describe the density of L2 peptide display on VLPs according to the present invention. Valency in the present invention may range from low valency to high valency about less than 1 to more than about 180 preferably about 90 to 180. Immunogenic compositions according to the present invention comprise VLPs which are preferably high valency and comprise VLPs which display at least 50 60 up to about 180 or more L2 peptides.

The term coding sequence is defined herein as a portion of a nucleic acid sequence which directly specifies the amino acid sequence of its protein product. The boundaries of the coding sequence are generally determined by a ribosome binding site prokaryotes or by the ATG start codon eukaryotes located just upstream of the open reading frame at the 5 end of the mRNA and a transcription terminator sequence located just downstream of the open reading frame at the 3 end of the mRNA. A coding sequence can include but is not limited to DNA cDNA and recombinant nucleic acid sequences.

A heterologous region of a recombinant cell is an identifiable segment of nucleic acid within a larger nucleic acid molecule that is not found in association with the larger molecule in nature.

An origin of replication used within context normally refers to those DNA sequences that participate in DNA synthesis by specifying a DNA replication initiation region. In the presence of needed factors DNA polymerases and the like an origin of replication causes or facilitates DNA associated with it to be replicated. By way of a non limiting example the ColE1 replication origin endows many commonly used plasmid cloning vectors with the capacity to replicate independently of the bacterial chromosome. Another example is the p15A replication origin. The presence on a plasmid of an additional origin of replication from phage M13 confers the additional ability to replicate using that origin when cells are infected with a so called helper phage e.g. M13CM1 which provides necessary protein factors. M13 replicates intracellularly as double stranded circular DNA but also produces a single stranded circular form which it packages within the phage particle. These particles provide a convenient source of single stranded circular DNA for plasmids.

A promoter sequence is a DNA regulatory region capable of binding RNA polymerase in a cell and initiating transcription of a downstream 3 direction coding sequence. For purposes of defining the present invention the promoter sequence includes the minimum number of bases or elements necessary to initiate transcription at levels detectable above background. Within the promoter will be found DNA sequences responsible for the binding of RNA polymerase and any of the associated factors necessary for transcription initiation. In bacteria promoters normally consist of 35 and 10 consensus sequences and a more or less specific transcription initiation site. Eukaryotic promoters will often but not always contain TATA boxes and CAT boxes. Bacterial expression vectors usually plasmids or phages typically utilize promoters derived from natural sources including those derived from the Lactose Arabinose Tryptophan and ProB operons as well as others from bacteriophage sources. Examples include promoters from bacteriophages lambda T7 T3 and SP6.

In bacteria transcription normally terminates at specific transcription termination sequences which typically are categorized as rho dependent and rho independent or intrinsic terminators depending on whether they require the action of the bacterial rho factor for their activity. These terminators specify the sites at which RNA polymerase is caused to stop its transcription activity and thus they largely define the 3 ends of the RNAs although sometimes subsequent action of ribonucleases further trims the RNA.

An antibiotic resistance gene refers to a gene that encodes a protein that renders a bacterium resistant to a given antibiotic. For example the kanamycin resistance gene directs the synthesis of a phosphotransferase that modifies and inactivates the drug. The presence on plasmids of a kanamycin resistance gene provides a mechanism to select for the presence of the plasmid within transformed bacteria. Similarly the chloramphenicol resistance gene allows bacteria to grow in the presence of the drug by producing an acetyltransferase enzyme that inactivates the antibiotic through acetylation.

The term PCR refers to the polymerase chain reaction a technique used for the amplification of specific DNA sequences in vitro. The term PCR primer refers to DNA sequences usually synthetic oligonucleotides able to anneal to a target DNA thus allowing a DNA polymerase e.g. Taq DNA polymerase to initiate DNA synthesis. Pairs of PCR primers are used in the polymerase chain reaction to initiate DNA synthesis on each of the two strands of a DNA and to thus amplify the DNA segment between two primers. Representative PCR primers which used in the present invention are those which are presented in hereof. Additional PCR primers may be obtained for the various HPV L2 peptides which are presented herein.

E3.2 5 CGG GCT TTG TTA GCA GCC GG 3 SEQ ID No. 35 serves as the 3 reverse primer in PCR reactions to amplify coat protein.

An expression control sequence is a DNA sequence that controls and regulates the transcription and translation of another DNA sequence. A coding sequence is under the control of transcriptional and translational control sequences in a cell when RNA polymerase transcribes the coding sequence into mRNA which is then translated into the protein encoded by the coding sequence. Transcriptional control sequences are DNA regulatory sequences such as promoters enhancers polyadenylation signals terminators and the like that provide for the expression of a coding sequence in a host cell. Translational control sequences determine the efficiency of translation of a messenger RNA usually by controlling the efficiency of ribosome binding and translation initiation. For example as discussed elsewhere in this application the coat proteins of the RNA phages are well known translational repressors of the phage replicase. As coat protein accumulates to a sufficiently high concentration in the infected cell it binds to an RNA hairpin that contains the translation initiation region Shine Dalgarno and initiator AUG of the phage s replicase gene. This prevents ribosome binding and shuts off replicase synthesis at a time in the viral life cycle where the transition from replication to virus assembly occurs.

A cell has been transformed by exogenous or heterologous DNA when such DNA has been introduced inside the cell. The transforming DNA may or may not be integrated covalently linked into chromosomal DNA making up the genome of the cell. In prokaryotes yeast and mammalian cells for example the transforming DNA may be maintained on an episomal element such as a plasmid which normally replicate independently of the bacterial chromosome by virtue of the presence on the plasmid of a replication origin. With respect to eukaryotic cells a stably transformed cell is one in which the transforming DNA has become integrated into a chromosome so that it is inherited by daughter cells through chromosome replication. This stability is demonstrated by the ability of the eukaryotic cell to establish cell lines or clones comprised of a population of daughter cells containing the transforming DNA.

A signal sequence can be included before the coding sequence. This sequence encodes a signal peptide N terminal to the polypeptide that communicates to the host cell to direct the polypeptide to the cell surface or secrete the polypeptide into the media and this signal peptide is clipped off by the host cell before the protein leaves the cell. Signal sequences can be found associated with a variety of proteins native to prokaryotes and eukaryotes.

It should be appreciated that also within the scope of the present invention are nucleic acid sequences encoding the polypeptide s of the present invention which code for a polypeptide having the same amino acid sequence as the sequences disclosed herein but which are degenerate to the nucleic acids disclosed herein. By degenerate to is meant that a different three letter codon is used to specify a particular amino acid.

As used herein epitope refers to an antigenic determinant of a polypeptide. An epitope could comprise 3 amino acids in a spatial conformation which is unique to the epitope. Generally an epitope consists of at least 5 such amino acids and more usually consists of at least about 8 10 up to about 20 or more such amino acids. Methods of determining the spatial conformation of amino acids are known in the art and include for example x ray crystallography and 2 dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance.

As used herein the term coat protein s refers to the protein s of a bacteriophage or a RNA phage capable of being incorporated within the capsid assembly of the bacteriophage or the RNA phage.

As used herein a coat polypeptide as defined herein is a polypeptide fragment of the coat protein that possesses coat protein function and additionally encompasses the full length coat protein as well or single chain variants thereof.

As used herein the term immune response refers to a humoral immune response and or cellular immune response leading to the activation or proliferation of B and or T lymphocytes and or antigen presenting cells. In some instances however the immune responses may be of low intensity and become detectable only when using at least one substance in accordance with the invention. Immunogenic refers to an agent used to stimulate the immune system of a living organism so that one or more functions of the immune system are increased and directed towards the immunogenic agent. An immunogenic polypeptide is a polypeptide that elicits a cellular and or humoral immune response whether alone or linked to a carrier in the presence or absence of an adjuvant. Preferably antigen presenting cell may be activated.

As used herein the term vaccine refers to a formulation which contains the composition of the present invention and which is in a form that is capable of being administered to an animal and provides a measure of protection protective effect against a disease state or condition for which the vaccine is administered. The term prevention or prophylaxis is used in context synonymously with the term reducing the likelihood of or inhibiting wherein the measure of prevention of a disease state or condition is one of degree of effect. Vaccines according to the present invention may also instill immunity in a patient or subject against a disease state or condition and such immunity is consistent with the use of the term prevention or prophylaxis as used above.

As used herein the term virus like particle of a bacteriophage refers to a virus like particle VLP resembling the structure of a bacteriophage being non replicative and noninfectious and lacking at least the gene or genes encoding for the replication machinery of the bacteriophage and typically also lacking the gene or genes encoding the protein or proteins responsible for viral attachment to or entry into the host.

This definition should however also encompass virus like particles of bacteriophages in which the aforementioned gene or genes are still present but inactive and therefore also leading to non replicative and noninfectious virus like particles of a bacteriophage.

VLP of RNA bacteriophage coat protein The capsid structure formed from the self assembly of one or more subunits of RNA bacteriophage coat protein and optionally containing host RNA is referred to as a VLP of RNA bacteriophage coat protein . In a particular embodiment the capsid structure is formed from the self assembly of 90 180 subunits.

A hybrid VLP refers to a VLP that displays two or more heterologous amino acid sequences on its surface such as for example amino acids 17 31 from HPV16 and HPV18. Such a hybrid VLP could be formed by coexpression of two recombinant coat proteins in the same expression strain of bacteria. Alternatively hybrid VLPs could be generated in vitro by disassembly of two separate recombinant VLPs into coat protein dimers. Following disassembly the recombinant coat protein dimers may be mixed together and then reassembled. Methods for assembly and disassembly of PP7 VLPs are described by Caldeira and Peabody 6 .

A nucleic acid molecule is operatively linked to or operably associated with an expression control sequence when the expression control sequence controls and regulates the transcription and translation of nucleic acid sequence. The term operatively linked includes having an appropriate start signal e.g. ATG in front of the nucleic acid sequence to be expressed and maintaining the correct reading frame to permit expression of the nucleic acid sequence under the control of the expression control sequence and production of the desired product encoded by the nucleic acid sequence. If a gene that one desires to insert into a recombinant DNA molecule does not contain an appropriate start signal such a start signal can be inserted in front of the gene.

 HPV induced disorders or HPV related disorders include but are not limited to the disorders identified in this section. Immunogenicity and prophylactic efficacy e.g. whether a composition is immunotherapeutic and prophylactic for HPV induced disorders may be evaluated either by the techniques and standards mentioned in this section or through other methodologies that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Over 100 different HPV types have been identified and are referred to by number. Types 16 18 31 33 35 39 45 51 52 56 58 and 59 are among the high risk sexually transmitted HPVs and may lead to the development of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia CIN vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia VIN vaginal cancer penile intraepithelial neoplasia PIN and or anal intraepithelial neoplasia AIN . Several types of HPV particularly type 16 have been found to be associated with oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma a form of head and neck cancer. HPV e.g. HPV 6 and 11 cause genital warts and HPV 6 and 11 can cause recurrent respiratory papillomatosis. HPV may cause epidermodysplasia verruciformis in immunocompromised individuals. Other HPV types such as HPV1 can causes cutaneous warts.

High risk human HPV infection of the cervical epithelium is causally linked with the generation of cervical cancer. HPV16 is associated with premalignant and malignant diseases of the genito urinary tract and in particular with carcinoma of the cervix. Papillomavirus prophylactic immunogenic compositions or vaccines target the systemic immune system for induction of neutralizing antibodies that protect the basal cells against infection. Because the carcinogenic HPVs are susceptible to neutralization by antibodies for 9 48 hours after reaching the basal cells both low and high titered HPV type specific antibodies induced by HPV L2 based vaccines should prove highly efficacious.

To assess immunogenicity e.g. whether a composition has induced a high titer antibody responses against HPV L2 an anti HPV 16 L2 geometric mean titer GMT can be measured e.g. after a few weeks of treatment e.g. 3 or 4 weeks and after administration of a few dosages e.g. 3 or 4 . The percentage of subjects who seroconverted for HPV 16 after a few weeks of treatment e.g. 3 or 4 weeks and after administration of a few dosages e.g. 3 or 4 and the magnitude of these responses can also be determined to assess immunogenicity.

The present invention is directed to virus like phage particles as well as methods for producing these particles in vivo or in vitro. The methods typically include producing virus like particles VLPs and recovering the VLPs. As used herein producing VLPs in vitro refers to producing VLPs outside of a cell for instance in a cell free system while producing virions in vivo refers to producing VLPs inside a cell for instance an or cell.

The system envisioned here is based on the properties of single strand RNA bacteriophages RNA Bacteriophages in The Bacteriophages. Calendar R L ed. Oxford University Press. 2005 . The known viruses of this group attack bacteria as diverse as and . Each possesses a highly similar genome organization replication strategy and virion structure. In particular the bacteriophages contain a single stranded sense RNA genome contain maturase coat and replicase genes and have small 

PP7 is a single strand RNA bacteriophage of and a distant relative to coliphages like MS2 and Q which also may be used in the present invention. PP7 coat protein is a specific RNA binding protein capable of repressing the translation of sequences fused to the translation initiation region of PP7 replicase. Its RNA binding activity is specific since it represses the translational operator of PP7 but does not repress the operators of the MS2 or Q phages. Conditions for the purification of coat protein and for the reconstitution of its RNA binding activity from disaggregated virus like particles have been established. Its dissociation constant for PP7 operator RNA in vitro was determined to be about 1 nM. Using a genetic system in which coat protein represses translation of a replicase galactosidase fusion protein amino acid residues important for binding of PP7 RNA were identified 28 .

The coat proteins of several single strand RNA bacteriophages are known translational repressors. They shut off viral replicase synthesis by binding an RNA hairpin that contains the replicase ribosome binding site. X ray structure determination of RNA phages shows that homologies evident from comparisons of coat protein amino acid sequences are reflected in their tertiary structures. The coat protein dimer which is both the repressor and the basic building block of the virus particle consists of two intertwined monomers that together form a large sheet surface upon which the RNA is bound. Each of the coat proteins uses a common structural framework to bind different RNAs thereby presenting an opportunity to investigate the basis of specific RNA protein recognition. We have described the RNA binding properties of the coat protein of PP7 an RNA bacteriophage of whose coat protein shows only 13 amino acid sequence identity to that of MS2. We have also presented the following findings. 1 The coat protein of PP7 is a translational repressor. 2 An RNA hairpin containing the PP7 replicase translation initiation site is specifically bound by PP7 coat protein both in vivo and in vitro indicating that this structure represents the translational operator. 3 The RNA binding site resides on the coat protein sheet.

By way of comparison the genome of MS2 comprises a single strand of sense RNA 3569 nucleotides long encoding only four proteins two of which are structural components of the virion. The viral particle is comprised of an icosahedral capsid made of 180 copies of coat protein and one molecule of maturase protein together with one molecule of the RNA genome. Coat protein is also a specific RNA binding protein. Assembly may possibly be initiated when coat protein associates with its specific recognition target an RNA hairpin near the 5 end of the replicase cistron. The virus particle is then liberated into the medium when the cell bursts under the influence of the viral lysis protein. The formation of an infectious virus requires at least three components namely coat protein maturase and viral genome RNA but experiments show that the information required for assembly of the icosahedral capsid shell is contained entirely within coat protein itself. For example purified coat protein can form capsids in vitro in a process stimulated by the presence of RNA Beckett et al. 1988 J. Mol Biol 204 939 47 . Moreover coat protein expressed in cells from a plasmid assembles into a virus like particle in vivo 37 .

Examples of PP7 coat polypeptides include but are not limited to the various chains of PP7 Coat Protein Dimer in Complex With RNA Hairpin e.g. Genbank Accession Nos. 2QUXR 2QUXO 2QUX L 2QUX I 2QUX F and 2QUX C . See also Example 1 herein and 29 .

The coat polypeptides useful in the present invention also include those having similarity with one or more of the coat polypeptide sequences disclosed above. The similarity is referred to as structural similarity. Structural similarity may be determined by aligning the residues of the two amino acid sequences i.e. a candidate amino acid sequence and the amino acid sequence to optimize the number of identical amino acids along the lengths of their sequences gaps in either or both sequences are permitted in making the alignment in order to optimize the number of identical amino acids although the amino acids in each sequence must nonetheless remain in their proper order. A candidate amino acid sequence can be isolated from a single stranded RNA virus or can be produced using recombinant techniques or chemically or enzymatically synthesized. Preferably two amino acid sequences are compared using the BESTFIT algorithm in the GCG package version 1 0.2 Madison Wis. or the Blastp program of the BLAST 2 search algorithm available on the worldwide web at URL ncbi.nlm.nih.gov blast bl2seq bl2.html. Preferably the default values for all BLAST 2 search parameters are used including matrix BLOSUM62 open gap penalty 11 extension gap penalty 1 gap xdropoff 50 expect 10 wordsize 3 and optionally filter on. In the comparison of two amino acid sequences using the BLAST search algorithm structural similarity is referred to as identities. Preferably a coat polypeptide also includes polypeptides with an amino acid sequence having at least 80 amino acid identity at least 85 amino acid identity at least 90 amino acid identity or at least 95 amino acid identity to one or more of the amino acid sequences disclosed above. Preferably a coat polypeptide is active. Whether a coat polypeptide is active can be determined by evaluating the ability of the polypeptide to form a capsid and package a single stranded RNA molecule. Such an evaluation can be done using an in vivo or in vitro system and such methods are known in the art and routine. Alternatively a polypeptide may be considered to be structurally similar if it has similar three dimensional structure as the recited coat polypeptide and or functional activity.

The HPV L2 peptide sequence may be present at the amino terminal end of a coat polypeptide at the carboxy terminal end of a coat polypeptide or it may be present elsewhere within the coat polypeptide. Preferably the HPV L2 peptide sequence is present at a location in the coat polypeptide such that the insert sequence is expressed on the outer surface of the capsid. In a particular embodiment the HPV L2 peptide sequence may be inserted into the AB loop regions of the above mentioned coat polypeptides preferably in the downstream subunit of the single chain dimer of the coat polypeptide. Examples of such locations include for instance insertion or replacement of the insert sequence into a coat polypeptide in accordance with the examples presented hereinafter. Insertion or replacement preferably insertion of the L2 peptide sequence into the AB loop region at amino acid units 8 11 of the AB loop preferably in the downstream subunit of the single chain dimer coat polypeptide is preferred.

Alternatively the HPV L2 peptide sequence may be inserted at the N terminus or C terminus of the coat polypeptide preferably in the downstream subunit of the dimer coat polypeptide.

The HPV L2 peptide sequence preferably includes but is not limited to amino acid sequences of at least five ten fifteen twenty amino twenty five or thirty amino acids derived from the minor capsid protein L2 of human Papillomavirus types 1 100 preferably 16 HPV16 18 31 33 35 39 45 51 52 56 58 or 59 preferably 16 HPV16 .

In another particular embodiment the L2 peptide sequence includes amino acid sequences with at least 75 80 85 90 or 95 homology to L2 sequences derived from HPV strains representing the five clades of the virus HPV1 HPV5 HPV6 HPV16 and HPV18 .

In order to determine a corresponding position in a structurally similar coat polypeptide the amino acid sequence of this structurally similar coat polypeptide is aligned with the sequence of the named coat polypeptide as specified above.

In a particular embodiment the coat polypeptide is a single chain dimer containing an upstream and downstream subunit. Each subunit contains a functional coat polypeptide sequence. The HPV L2 peptide sequence may be inserted in the upstream and or downstream subunit at the sites mentioned hereinabove e.g. AB loop region of downstream subunit preferably at amino acid units 8 11 and as otherwise specified in the examples which are described hereinbelow. In a particular embodiment the coat polypeptide is a single chain dimer of a PP7 coat polypeptide and the L2 peptide sequence is inserted in the AB loop region of the downstream subunit.

The transcription unit of the present invention comprises an expression regulatory region e.g. a promoter a sequence encoding a single chain of a coat polypeptide which includes a HPV L2 peptide encoding sequence and a transcription terminator. The RNA polynucleotide may optionally include a coat recognition site also referred to a packaging signal translational operator sequence coat recognition site . Alternatively the transcription unit may be free of the translational operator sequence. The promoter coding region transcription terminator and when present the coat recognition site are generally operably linked. Operably linked or operably associated with refer to a juxtaposition wherein the components so described are in a relationship permitting them to function in their intended manner. A regulatory sequence is operably linked to or operably associated with a coding region when it is joined in such a way that expression of the coding region is achieved under conditions compatible with the regulatory sequence. The coat recognition site when present may be at any location within the RNA polynucleotide provided it functions in the intended manner.

The invention is not limited by the use of any particular promoter and a wide variety of promoters are known. The promoter used in the invention can be a constitutive or an inducible promoter. Preferred promoters are able to drive high levels of RNA encoded by me coding region encoding the coat polypeptide Examples of such promoters are known in the art and include for instance the lac promoter T7 T3 and SP6 promoters.

The nucleotide sequences of the coding regions encoding coat polypeptides described herein are readily determined. These classes of nucleotide sequences are large but finite and the nucleotide sequence of each member of the class can be readily determined by one skilled in the art by reference to the standard genetic code. Furthermore the coding sequence of an RNA bacteriophage single chain dimer coat polypeptide comprises a site for insertion of HPV L2 peptide encoding sequences. In a particular embodiment the site for insertion of the HPV L2 peptide encoding sequence is a restriction enzyme site.

In a particular embodiment the coding region encodes a single chain dimer of the coat polypeptide preferably a PP7 coat polypeptide. In a most particular embodiment the coding region encodes a modified single chain coat polypeptide dimer where the modification comprises an insertion of a coding sequence at least four amino acids at the insertion site. The transcription unit may contain a bacterial promoter such as a lac promoter or it may contain a bacteriophage promoter such as a T7 promoter and optionally a T7 transcription terminator.

In addition to containing a promoter and a coding region encoding a fusion polypeptide the RNA polynucleotide typically includes a transcription terminator and optionally a coat recognition site. A coat recognition site is a nucleotide sequence that forms a hairpin when present as RNA. This is also referred to in the art as a translational operator a packaging signal and an RNA binding site. Without intending to be limiting this structure is believed to act as the binding site recognized by the translational repressor e.g. the coat polypeptide and initiate RNA packaging. The nucleotide sequences of coat recognition sites are known in the art. Other coat recognition sequences have been characterized in the single stranded RNA bacteriophages R17 GA Q SP and PP7 and are readily available to the skilled person. Essentially any transcriptional terminator can be used in the RNA polynucleotide provided it functions with the promoter. Transcriptional terminators are known to the skilled person readily available and routinely used.

As will be described in further detail below the VLPs of the present invention may be produced in vivo by introducing transcription units into bacteria especially if transcription units contain a bacterial promoter Alternatively VLPs synthesized in vitro in a coupled cell free transcription translation system.

As noted above the VLPs of the present invention display a HPV L2 peptide encoding sequence. These VLPs may be assembled by performing an in vitro VLP assembly reaction. Specifically purified coat protein subunits are obtained from VLPs that have been disaggregated with a denaturant usually acetic acid . The protein subunits are mixed with a heterologous substance. In a particular embodiment the substance has some affinity for the interior of the VLP and is preferably negatively charged. This substance could include an adjuvant including but not limited to RNA bacterial DNA CpG oligonucleotides cholera toxin subunit B or lymphotoxin 

In a particular embodiment the populations of the present invention may be synthesized in a coupled in vitro transcription translation system using procedures known in the art see for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 008 651 relevant portions of which are incorporated by reference herein . In a particular embodiment bacteriophage T7 or a related RNA polymerase is used to direct the high level transcription of genes cloned under control of a T7 promoter in systems optimized to efficiently translate the large amounts of RNA thus produced.

There are a number of possible uses for the VLPs and VLP populations of the present invention. As will be described in further detail below the VLPs may be used as immunogenic compositions particularly vaccines.

As noted above the VLPs of the present invention may be used to formulate immunogenic compositions particularly vaccines. The vaccines should be in a form that is capable of being administered to an animal. Typically the vaccine comprises a conventional saline or buffered aqueous solution medium in which the composition of the present invention is suspended or dissolved. In this form the composition of the present invention can be used conveniently to prevent ameliorate or otherwise treat a condition or disorder. Upon introduction into a host the vaccine is able to provoke an immune response including but not limited to the production of antibodies and or cytokines and or the activation of cytotoxic T cells antigen presenting cells helper T cells dendritic cells and or other cellular responses.

Optionally the vaccine of the present invention additionally includes an adjuvant which can be present in either a minor or major proportion relative to the compound of the present invention. The term adjuvant as used herein refers to non specific stimulators of the immune response or substances that allow generation of a depot in the host which when combined with the vaccine of the present invention provide for an even more enhanced immune response. A variety of adjuvants can be used. Examples include complete and incomplete Freund s adjuvant aluminum hydroxide and modified muramyl dipeptide. Squalene has also been used as an adjuvant.

Optionally the vaccine of the present invention additionally includes an adjuvant which can be present in either a minor or major proportion relative to the compound of the present invention.

The invention may be better understood by reference to the following non limiting examples which are provided as exemplary of the invention. The following examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate the preferred embodiments of the invention and should in no way be construed however as limiting the broad scope of the invention. References corresponding to numerical reference citations are listed after the examples.

MS2 and PP7 coat protein single chain dimers are highly tolerant of peptide insertions and produce correctly assembled VLPs displaying the peptide insertion on the surface of VLP in a highly dense repetitive array. These VLPs are highly immunogenic and confer this high immunogenicity to heterologous peptides displayed on their surfaces. Here we describe VLPs displaying a peptide antigens derived from the Human Papillomavirus HPV minor capsid protein L2. Such recombinant VLPs serve as a prophylactic vaccine to prevent infection by diverse HPV strains.

The vaccines described below induced high titer antibody responses against L2 and protected against HPV challenge in a mouse model of infection. Similar techniques could also be used to construct MS2 VLPs that display L2 peptides.

Two general kinds of plasmid were constructed for the synthesis of PP7 coat protein in see . The first pP7K and p2P7K32 expresses coat protein from the lac promoter and is used in combination with pRZP7 see below to assay for coat protein s tolerance of peptide insertions using translational repressor and VLP assembly assays. The second plasmid type pETP7K and pET2P7K32 expresses the protein from the T7 promoter and transcription terminator. These plasmids produce large amounts of coat protein that assembles correctly into a VLP. They also produce coat specific mRNA with discrete 5 and 3 termini for encapsidation into VLPs.

The three dimensional structure of the PP7 capsid shows that it is comprised of a coat protein whose tertiary structure closely mimics that of MS2 even though the amino acid sequences of the two proteins show only about 12 sequence identity 47 . The PP7 protein possesses an AB loop into which peptides may be inserted following a scheme similar to the one we described previously for MS2 38 . As in the MS2 case mutation of the PP7 coat sequence to contain a site for the restriction endonuclease KpnI facilitates insertion of foreign sequences in the plasmids called pP7K and pETP7K . This modification resulted in the amino acid substitution E11T shown in . This substitution was well tolerated since the mutant coat protein represses translation and assembles correctly into a VLP. Again following the MS2 example it was assumed that the folding of a single chain dimer version of PP7 coat protein would be more resistant to AB loop insertions than the conventional dimer. Its construction was described previously 6 . The single chain dimer was modified to contain a KpnI site only in the downstream copy of the coding sequence producing p2P7K32 and pET2P7K32 . In this design peptides can be inserted at amino acid 11 but it should be noted that other specific insertion sites are possible including in the amino terminus in the carboxy terminus or anywhere within the AB loop of the coat polypeptide preferably at amino acids 8 11 of the AB loop. Insertion or replacement of amino acids within the AB loop or the amino acid or carboxy terminus of the coat polypeptide preferably within the downstream subunit of the coat polypeptide may be used to accommodate the L2 peptide.

The construction of the expression plasmids p2P7K32 and pET2P7K32 have been described above. As explained these plasmids code for the expression of a version of PP7 coat protein in which two copies of coat protein are genetically fused into a single chain dimer. p2P7K32 and pET2P7K32 also contain a unique KpnI sites that allow for genetic insertion of sequences at amino acid 11 of the downstream copy of coat. To create the VLPs that display L2 peptides we designed PCR primers shown in that allowed us to clone L2 derived sequences into the AB loop of PP7 coat. These sequences represented L2 amino acids 17 31 from different HPV isolates including HPV16 QLYKTCKQAGTCPPD SEQ ID No. 15 HPV45 DLYRTCKQSGTCPPD SEQ ID No. 25 and HPV58 QLYQTCKASGTCPPD SEQ ID No. 19. This strategy was used to insert the corresponding L2 amino acids from other HPV types shown in into the PP7 single chain dimer. The sequence of this region of L2 is relatively conserved across diverse HPV isolates .

The functionality of coat protein encoded by the resulting plasmids including for example p2P7 16L2 p2P7 45L2 and p2P7 58L2 was tested by two assays. First we assessed the translational repression activity of recombinant PP7 coat proteins. PP7 coat normally functions as a translational repressor shutting off synthesis of the viral replicase by binding to a specific RNA hairpin structure containing its ribosome binding site the translational operator . We described previously the construction of pRZP7 a plasmid that fuses the PP7 translational operator to the lacZ gene thus placing galactosidase synthesis under control of coat protein s translational repressor activity 28 . Because it confers resistance to a different antibiotic chloramphenicol and because it comes from a different incompatibility group i.e. it uses the p15A replication origin it can easily be maintained in the same strain as p2P7K32 which confers resistance to ampicillin and uses a colE1 origin. The expression of PP7 coat protein from p2P7K32 represses translation of galactosidase expressed from pRZP7. This makes it easy to determine whether a given peptide insertion has interfered with the ability of coat protein to correctly fold since defective coat proteins give blue colonies on plates containing the galactosidase chromogenic substrate known as X gal whereas a properly functioning coat protein yields white colonies. All three recombinant coat proteins produced white colonies indicating that the L2 recombinant coat proteins were functional.

Second we assessed the presence of VLPs in lysates of cells expressing a peptide coat protein recombinant by electrophoresis on agarose gel of cells lysed by sonication. Ethidium bromide staining detects the RNA containing VLP whose presence can be confirmed by western blot analysis using anti PP7 serum. Electrophoresis of the VLPs in an agarose gel shows that each construct contains RNA it stains with ethidium bromide and exhibits an altered electrophoretic mobility due to charge differences conferred by the inserted peptides . Thus all three recombinant single chain dimer coat proteins formed VLPs.

In order to demonstrate that L2 peptides inserted into the PP7 AB loop were indeed displayed on the surface of VLPs we assessed the ability of a monoclonal antibody mAb RG 1 20 specific for the HPV16 L2 sequence to bind to recombinant 16L2 PP7 VLPs by ELISA. As shown in mAb RG 1 bound to 16L2 VLPs but not to wild type PP7 VLPs or PP7 VLPs that were modified to display the FLAG epitope FLAG VLPs . Moreover as shown in mAb RG 1 bound to all eight of the L2 VLPs we produced but not to wild type PP7 VLPs.

To test the immunogenicity of the VLPs groups of three to nine mice were immunized with L2 displaying VLPs or wild type PP7 VLPs by intramuscular injection. Groups of three to nine mice were immunized intramuscularly with 10 g of VLPs plus incomplete Freunds Adjuvant IFA . All mice were boosted with the same amount of VLPs two weeks later. Sera were collected before each inoculation and weekly for three to four weeks after the boost. Sera from the mice were tested by end point dilution ELISA for IgG antibodies specific for synthetic L2 peptides representing HPV1 5 6 16 or 18 . Mice immunized with 1L2 5L2 6L2 11L2 16L2 18L2 45L2 and 58L2 VLPs generated high titer geometric mean titer typically 10 IgG responses against the corresponding peptide whereas no antibodies were detected in control mice. Thus L2 peptides displayed on the surface of PP7 single chain dimer VLPs display the high immunogenicity that is characteristic of other VLP displayed antigens.

The 16L2 VLP vaccine we designed contains amino acids 17 31 from HPV16 L2 a region shown to contain one or more highly cross reactive neutralizing epitopes 1 20 suggesting that the 16L2 VLPs could potentially protect against HPV challenge. We demonstrated that 16L2 VLPs could protect mice from HPV challenge using a HPV pseudovirus mouse genital challenge model first reported by Roberts and colleagues 40 .

The 16L2 VLP vaccine we designed contains amino acids 17 31 from HPV16 L2 a region shown to contain one or more highly cross reactive neutralizing epitopes 1 20 suggesting that the 16L2 VLPs could potentially protect against HPV challenge. We assessed whether 16L2 VLPs could protect mice from HPV challenge using a HPV pseudovirus mouse genital challenge model first reported by Roberts and colleagues 40 . Groups of five Balb c mice were given two intramuscular injections of HPV16 L1 VLPs wild type PP7 VLPs or 16L2 VLPs or adjuvant IFA alone and then three weeks after the boost challenged intravaginally with a high dose 10IU of HPV pseudovirus carrying a luciferase reporter. As a negative control mice were mock challenged with PBS. Infection was detected as a bioluminescent signal two days after the administration of pseudovirions immediately after intravaginal instillation of the challenged mice with the reporter substrate luciferin.

As shown in mice immunized with 16L2 VLPs were strongly 90 protected from infection with the homologous pseudovirus HPV16 whereas mice immunized with wild type PP7 VLPs were not protected. We also tested whether vaccination with 16L2 VLPs could protect mice from genital infection with a heterologous HPV type. We chose HPV45 pseudovirus because it is not closely related to HPV16 and because its L2 17 31 sequence varies from the HPV16 sequence at three of the fifteen amino acid positions. Immunization with HPV16 L1 VLPs did not protect mice from HPV45 challenge. However 16L2 VLP immunized mice were protected 83 from genital infection with HPV45 pseudovirus. Thus 16L2 VLPs have potential as a pan HPV vaccine.

We also tested the immunogenicity of a combination vaccine consisting of all eight L2 PP7 VLPs that were constructed. Groups of mice were immunized with a mixture of equal amounts of 1L2 VLPs 5L2 VLPs 6L2 VLPs 11L2 VLPs 16L2 VLPs 18L2 VLPs 45L2 VLPs and 58L2VLPs. Mice were immunized three times at two week intervals with a 10 g dose and without exogenous adjuvant. Sera were collected before each inoculation and weekly for three to four weeks after the boost. Sera from the mice were tested by end point dilution ELISA for IgG antibodies specific for synthetic L2 peptides representing HPV1 5 6 16 or 18 . Mice immunized with the mixture of L2 VLPs produced high titer antibodies reactive with peptides representing 1L2 5L2 6L2 11L2 16L2 and 18L2. Thus a mixture of L2 VLPs displayed on the surface of PP7 single chain dimer VLPs is also highly immunogenic.

We assessed whether the mixed L2 VLP vaccination could protect mice from HPV challenge using the HPV pseudovirus mouse genital challenge model described above. Following immunization with the mixed L2 VLPs as described above or as a negative control wild type PP7 VLPs mice were challenged intravaginally with a high dose 10 10IU of HPV5 6 16 18 31 45 52 or 58 pseudovirus carrying a luciferase reporter. As shown in immunization with mixed PP7 L2 VLPs protected mice from HPV5 pseudovirus infection 98.2 reduction in signal HPV6 pseudovirus infection 98.6 reduction in signal HPV16 pseudovirus infection 99.7 reduction in signal HPV18 pseudovirus infection 99.1 reduction in signal HPV31 pseudovirus infection 99.9 reduction HPV45 pseudovirus infection 99.2 reduction HPV52 pseudovirus infection 98.5 reduction in signal and HPV58 pseudovirus infection 93.1 reduction in signal . Thus mixed L2 VLPs also have potential as a pan HPV vaccine.

Using the methods described elsewhere in this application we generated recombinant PP7 VLPs that display HPV16 L2 amino acids 35 50 amino acid sequence KVEGKTIADQILQYGS SEQ ID No. 36 and amino acids 51 65 sequence MGVFFGGLGIGTGSG SEQ ID No. 37. These VLPs were used to immunize mice and following two immunizations antibodies against a synthetic peptides representing A HPV16 L2 amino acids 34 52 or B HPV16 L2 amino acids 49 71 were measured by end point dilution ELISA. As shown in both recombinant VLPs induced high titer IgG antibodies that recognized the L2 peptides.

