---

title: Method and apparatus for deploying a wireless network
abstract: A method for deploying a wireless network in accordance with particular embodiments includes deploying one or more base stations configured to provide wireless connections between the one or more base stations and one or more endpoints. The method also includes deploying one or more remote transceivers configured to provide wireless connections between the one or more remote transceivers and one or more endpoints. The method further includes modifying at least one base station of the one or more base stations. The modified base station is configured to control the one or more remote transceivers. The method additionally includes modifying at least one remote transceiver of the one or more remote transceivers. The modified remote transceiver is configured to control the at least one remote transceiver without receiving control information from the at least one base station.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08792933&OS=08792933&RS=08792933
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 08792933
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110203
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 312 415 filed Mar. 10 2010 and entitled Method and System for Enhancing Capability of Distributed Antenna System. This application is a continuation in part of prior application Ser. No. 12 884 377 filed Sep. 17 2010 and entitled System and Method for Implementing Power Distribution. 

This invention relates in general to wireless networks and more particularly to a method and apparatus for deploying a wireless network.

Distributed antenna systems consist of a base station also known as a Radio Element Control or a Baseband Unit and one or more remote transceivers also known as Radio Elements or Remote Radio Heads . These components provide endpoints with wireless network access. To aid the distributed antenna system in distinguishing between the various wireless transmissions to and from the various endpoints each endpoint may have one or more unique subcarriers assigned thereto.

Within a distributed antenna system the remote transceivers are distributed around different geographic locations while being connected via a wired connection e.g. optical fiber to the base station. Wile there may be multiple remote transceivers from the perspective of an endpoint there is only one entity the base station. That is each remote transceiver transmits essentially the same core data and the endpoint combines multiple signals from multiple remote transceivers into a single communication.

The base station communicates with the remote transceivers using for example the Common Public Radio Interface CPRI standard. The CPRI standard allows in phase quadrature I Q data to be transmitted from the base station to the remote transceivers. The remote transceivers use the I Q data to form the transmissions that are sent to any endpoints connected thereto. The remote transceivers are also able to communicate with the base station using the CPRI standard. This allows the remote transceivers to relay data received from the endpoints and to communicate control information such as signal quality to the base station.

In accordance with a particular embodiment a method for deploying a wireless network in accordance with particular embodiments includes deploying one or more base stations configured to provide wireless connections between the one or more base stations and one or more endpoints. The method also includes deploying one or more remote transceivers configured to provide wireless connections between the one or more remote transceivers and one or more endpoints. The method further includes modifying at least one base station of the one or more base stations. The modified base station is configured to control the one or more remote transceivers. The method additionally includes modifying at least one remote transceiver of the one or more remote transceivers. The modified remote transceiver is configured to control the at least one remote transceiver without receiving control information from the at least one base station.

Technical advantages of particular embodiments may include deploying and modifying components of a wireless network in response to network load. Accordingly wireless service providers may be able to grow expand and improve their network in a more economically viable fashion. Other technical advantages will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims. Moreover while specific advantages have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages.

In particular embodiments a service provider may employ distributed antenna system as a starting point or intermediary point in their long term deployment plans. For example a service provider may enter a new area or introduce a new wireless technology by first deploying a few macro base stations. As the service provider grows the wireless service it may add one or more distributed antenna systems or replace one or more macro base stations with distributed antenna systems. As growth continues one or more distributed antenna systems may eventually be replaced with pico base stations. The pico base stations may be added gradually e.g. selecting a few remote transceivers at a time to be replaced with pico base stations or all at once e.g. the whole distributed antenna system is replaced with several pico base stations. Each change may yield an increase in overall system capacity and or coverage area.

In general the overall system capacity of a wireless system increases when the cell size is reduced. The cell size refers to the coverage area associated with a node e.g. a macro base station or a pico base station . For example coverage area may correspond to the cell size of distributed antenna system . A pico base station based system may comprise cell throughput density in the unit of bps per square meter that is higher than the distributed antennae system because the coverage area of a pico base station cell is smaller than for example coverage area of distributed antennae system . Although distributed antenna system may have a higher per cell throughput compared to the pico base station system the cell throughput density is lower because of the increased coverage area.

The cost associated with the different types of equipment varies. For example a macro base station comprising powerful processors and high power RF amplifiers is typically more expensive than a base station comprising a relatively less powerful processor for a remote transceiver controller without any RF amplifiers. A pico base station comprising less powerful processors and lower power RF amplifiers has a cost somewhere between a macro base station and a remote transceiver that includes a lower power RF amplifier and an even less powerful processor.

In general the price of new equipment decreases over time as the technology matures. However different types of equipment decrease at different rates. For example the price of macro base stations changes at a slower rate than the price of a pico base stations. Moreover the lower costs associated with small base stations such as pico base stations typically invites more vendors to supply the small base stations. The increased competition further accelerates price drops.

There are also costs associated with site acquisition hardware management and the backhaul connection. With respect to site acquisition costs the low number of macro base stations results in typically low site acquisition costs where as the large number of pico base stations results in typically high site acquisition costs the site acquisition costs associated with distributed antenna system typically falls somewhere in the middle . Because of the larger cell size the management costs of a macro base station based system and distributed antenna system is lower than a pico base station based system. Because of the increased capacity of distributed antenna system and a pico base station based system the backhaul costs are greater than they are for a macro base station based system.

From the foregoing it may be seen that distributed antenna system provides system capacity and has an associated cost that is between that of a macro base station based system and a pico base station based system. The deployment scheme in accordance with certain embodiments may take advantage of a trade off between system performance such as system capacity and the cost to grow the wireless network in a cost effective manner. When a wireless service provider starts to provide wireless service to a new area or introduce a new wireless technology e.g. LTE service to an existing service area it may begin by deploying a few macro base stations such as base station . Each macro base station may comprise the features and capabilities needed to provide wireless service within its associated coverage area. In this stage there may be a relatively low number subscribers for the new service placing a relatively small demand on the capacity of the system. Using a few macro base stations the wireless service provider may be able to provide coverage over a relatively large geographic area in a relatively short deployment time frame. While the macro base stations may be expensive the relatively slow rate at which their cost comes down make the macro base stations a prudent early investment.

When the wireless service provider begins to grow the coverage area fill in gaps in the coverage area or increase system capacity to meet customer demand the service provider may convert one or more of the macro base stations such as base station into a distributed antenna base station e.g. a remote transceiver controller . One or more remote transceivers may then be added and connected to base station . The wireless service provider may be able to add additional remote transceivers over time to increase or improve the coverage or capacity of distributed antenna system .

In some embodiments converting base station from a macro base station to a remote transceiver controller may comprise adding a new module to base station . For example the new module may comprise a processor configured to convert signals between baseband signals and CPRI I Q samples. This may allow for communication with remote transceivers over CPRI. The processor may also be used in determining non uniform power distribution for the remote transceivers coupled to the base station . In some embodiments a CPRI optical interface may be added to base station during the conversion to a remote transceiver controller. The optical interface may be a component of the new module added to base station .

In some scenarios instead of converting base station from a macro base station to a remote transceiver controller the remote transceiver controller functionality may be added on top of the existing macro base station. For example if the form factor of base station is a standard rack mounting form factor it may be easy to add a remote transceiver controller to the rack used by base station . This may allow base station to function as both a macro base station and a remote transceiver controller for distributed antenna system . In some embodiments the wireless service provider may deploy fiber optic connections to remote transceivers . The fiber optic connections may subsequently be used by pico base stations for their backhaul connection.

Eventually as the wireless network continues to grow the wireless service provider may decide to convert one or more of the remote transceivers to pico base stations. In some embodiments this may be done by adding a module to a remote transceiver. For example the module may comprise a processor that is configured to handle baseband signals media access control MAC signaling e.g. addressing channel access control scheduling etc. and networking processes such as IP networking processes. In some embodiments converting a remote transceiver to a pico base station may convert the wired connection of the remote transceiver from a CPRI connection to an IP connection for the pico base station.

In particular embodiments the above upgrade approach may allow a wireless service provider to grow their network in an incremental approach that better matches the traffic demand and revenue of the wireless network. This approach may better distribute and or reduce the cost of the wireless network to the wireless service provider. For example in certain scenarios the demand for more capacity may increase at a rate that approximates the rate at which the underlying technologies mature. The above upgrade approach may allow the wireless service provider to delay installing pico base stations until their cost is lower as compared to when the wireless service provider first began deploying the wireless service.

The above upgrade approach also provides the wireless service provider with greater deployment flexibility compared to a traditional deployment technique in which more and more macro or pico base stations are added.

In some embodiments such as where the wireless service provider is replacing an existing wireless service with a new wireless service the wireless service provider may forego installing macro base stations and may jump directly to installing distributed antenna system or a pico base station based system. In doing so the wireless service provider may use optical or other backhaul connections installed in its previous generation of wireless systems. Without the cost of installing backhaul connections the price of distributed antenna system would be cost competitive with a macro base station installation while providing higher system capacity compared to the macro base station based system.

In certain embodiments base station may be able to quickly determine an optimum distribution of power for each endpoint at each remote transceiver . For example base station may determine the optimum distribution by solving a convex optimization problem using an intelligent heuristic algorithm that is able to be run in polynomial time. The non uniform distribution of power to different subcarriers at different remote transceivers may increase the capacity of distributed antennas system as compared to a blanket transmission scheme in a traditional distributed antenna system.

Distributed antenna system may be coupled to network via base station . Distributed antenna system may provide wireless coverage for endpoints over a large geographic area. For example a single base station e.g. base station and a plurality of remote transceivers e.g. remote transceivers may be used to provide wireless coverage for an entire building. In distributed antenna system remote transceivers may differ from relay stations in that they have a wired connection to base station as opposed to a wireless connection as used by traditional relay stations. In some embodiments remote transceivers may initially comprise reduced intelligence compared to relay stations or base stations. As the service provider grows the wireless network and converts remote transceivers to pico base stations the service provider may add or replace modules within the remote transceivers to increase their intelligence e.g. convert them to pico base stations . In some embodiments base station and remote transceivers may together comprise the functionality of a traditional macro base station wherein base station comprises the logic to manage the wireless connections with endpoints e.g. assign channels and power levels and remote transceivers may comprise the components for communicating with the endpoints e.g. radios amplifiers analog to digital and digital to analog converters . Distributed antenna system may reduce the operational and deployment cost by reducing the radiated power e.g. spreading remote transceivers over a wide area eliminates the need for a powerful central transceiver to cover the same wide area and providing deployment flexibility e.g. remote transceivers may be small in size compared to other types of relay stations repeaters or macro base stations .

In some embodiments remote transceivers may be part of a long term deployment plan. For example when a wireless service provided first brings wireless service to a new area it may begin by deploying a few macro base stations. Each macro base station may comprise all the features and capabilities needed to provide wireless service within its associated coverage area. When the service provider begins to grow the coverage area fill in gaps in its coverage area or respond to increased demand within its coverage area the service provider may convert one or more of the macro base stations into distributed antenna base stations e.g. base station and add one or more remote transceivers. The conversion may comprise adding a new module to the macro base station. The wireless service provider may then add additional remote transceivers as needed. Eventually the wireless service provider may decide to convert the remote transceivers to pico base stations. This may be done by simply adding a module to the remote transceivers and converting the backhaul connections of remote transceivers from CPRI connections to IP connections. This upgrade approach allows a service provider to grow their network in an incremental approach. This may reduce the cost for the wireless service provider and provides greater deployment flexibility compared to traditional deployment techniques of simply adding more macro or pico base stations.

Because remote transceivers are distributed over a geographical area the distance between an endpoint and each remote transceiver may be different. In particular embodiments the signal quality between an endpoint and a remote transceiver may generally increase as the endpoint gets closer to the remote transceiver. Particular embodiments may take advantage of this increased signal quality by increasing the transmission power for the subcarriers associated with the signal having the better signal quality. Because a remote transceiver has a finite amount of transmission power an increase in power for a particular subcarrier may be balanced by a corresponding decrease in power of another subcarrier. One possible way in which base station may estimate how close an endpoint is to one or more of remote transceivers is to estimate the dominant part of a channel response e.g. slow fading associated with the endpoint. In some embodiments remote transceivers may include a module which is capable of measuring the received signal power.

Depending on the embodiment distributed antenna system may use any of a variety of wireless technologies or protocols e.g. IEEE 802.16m or 802.16e or long term evolution LTE for communications between remote transceivers and endpoints . The multiple remote transceivers appear to endpoints as a single entity an extension of base station . Thus each remote transceiver may attempt to send the same core data to endpoints and may potentially receive the same data from endpoints . The differences in the data that is sent or received may be the result of the respective distances of each remote transceiver from a particular endpoint and as will be discussed in more detail below the amount of power applied to each subcarrier at each remote transceiver.

Depending on the embodiment distributed antenna system may use any of a variety of different wired technologies or protocols e.g. CPRI for communications between remote transceivers and base station . In particular embodiments base station may be configured to adjust the power either directly e.g. by incorporating the power distribution in the I Q samples that are sent to the remote transceivers or indirectly e.g. by providing power distribution values to each remote transceiver from which the remote transceivers can determine their respective power distribution that each remote transceiver applies to its transmissions. By selectively increasing or decreasing the transmission power for particular sub carriers associated with particular endpoints at particular remote transceivers base station may be able to more efficiently use the available wireless resources.

Depending on the embodiment base station may use signal quality information from the various remote transceivers to determine the power distribution for each sub carrier for each remote transceiver . The signal quality information may include the received uplink power strength the maximal usable modulation and coding scheme MCS level the carrier to interference plus noise ratio CINR of the wireless connection and or the signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR of the wireless connection. In particular embodiments uplink sounding may be used to estimate the channel gain and interference strength between endpoints and remote transceivers .

Network may be any network or combination of networks capable of transmitting signals data and or messages including signals data or messages transmitted through WebPages e mail text chat voice over IP VoIP and instant messaging. Network may include one or more LANs WANs MANs PSTNs WiMAX networks global distributed networks such as the Internet Intranet Extranet or any other form of wireless or wired networking. Network may use any of a variety of protocols for either wired or wireless communication.

Base station may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to implement any number of communication protocols that allow for the wireless exchange of packets in distributed antenna system . Depending on the deployment base station may be configured as a macro base station a remote transceiver controller or both a macro base station and a remote transceiver controller. In the depicted embodiment base station is configured as a macro base station and as a remote transceiver controller. As a remote transceiver controller base station may be configured to determine and distribute a power distribution to each remote transceiver . Depending on the embodiment base station may apply the power distribution to the data before it is sent to the remote transceivers for transmission or base station may allow each remote transceivers to individually apply the power distribution.

Remote transceivers may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to implement any number of communication protocols that allow for the wireless exchange of packets with endpoints in distributed antenna system . Depending on the deployment remote transceivers may be configured as pico base stations remote transceivers or both pico base stations and remote transceivers. In the depicted embodiment remote transceivers are configured as remote transceivers. In some embodiments remote transceivers receive data from base station that may already include the power distribution determinations made by base station . In particular embodiments each remote transceiver may adjust the transmission power of the core data received from base station . The adjustments may be made based on one or more control signals sent from base station specifying the transmission power for each sub carrier or plurality of sub carriers at each respective remote transceiver .

Endpoints may comprise any type of wireless device able to send and receive data and or signals to and from base station via remote transceivers . Some possible types of endpoints may include desktop computers PDAs cell phones laptops and or VoIP phones. Endpoints may provide data or network services to a user through any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . Endpoints may also include unattended or automated systems gateways other intermediate components or other devices that can send or receive data and or signals.

The following example may help illustrate particular features of certain embodiments. For purposes of this example assume that base station only controls two remote transceivers remote transceivers and . Further assume that endpoints and are both located in the area served by remote transceivers and . To simplify the scenario assume that the scheduling algorithm at base station allocates the same number of subcarriers in a frame to each of endpoints and . Further assume that the magnitude of the channel gain between remote transceiver and endpoint is twice that of remote transceiver and endpoint and that the magnitude of the channel gain between remote transceiver and endpoint is twice that of remote transceiver and endpoint . Based on these assumptions base station may allocate of remote transceiver s power to the subcarriers used by endpoint and to the subcarriers used by endpoint as opposed to the even and distribution of a standard distributed antenna system . Similarly base station may allocate of remote transceiver s power to the subcarriers used by endpoint and to the subcarriers used by endpoint

Although illustrates a particular number and configuration of endpoints connections links and nodes distributed antenna system contemplates any number or arrangement of such components for communicating data. In addition elements of distributed antenna system may include components centrally located local with respect to one another or distributed throughout distributed antenna system .

Distributed antenna system includes base station and remote transceivers . Base station and remote transceivers may each include one or more portions of one or more computer systems. In particular embodiments one or more of these computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems may provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments encoded software running on one or more computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provide functionality described or illustrated herein.

The components of base station and remote transceiver may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation base station and or remote transceiver may comprise an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate base station and or remote transceiver may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Where appropriate distributed antenna system may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation distributed antenna system may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more distributed antenna systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In the depicted embodiment base station and remote transceiver each include their own respective processors and memory and storage and interfaces and and buses and . Base station and remote transceiver are shown with the optional module and module which may be used in certain embodiments. These components may work together to provide a distributed antenna system in which the power distribution for each endpoint at each remote transceiver is distributed based on a relative signal quality for each endpoint at each remote transceiver. Although a particular distributed antenna system is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable distributed antenna system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. For simplicity similar components of base station and remote transceiver will be discussed together wherein the components of remote transceiver will be identified in parenthesis. However it is not necessary for both devices to have the same components or the same type of components. For example processor may be a general purpose microprocessor and processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

Processor and or may be a microprocessor controller or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software and or encoded logic operable to provide either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory or respectively wireless networking functionality. Such functionality may include providing various wireless features discussed herein. For example processor may determine how to allocate power for each sub carrier at each remote transceiver . Additional examples and functionality provided at least in part by processor and or will be discussed below.

In particular embodiments processor and or may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor and or may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory and or or storage and or decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory and or or storage and or .

In particular embodiments processor and or may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor and or including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor and or may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory and or or storage and or and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor and or . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory and or or storage and or for instructions executing at processor and or to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor and or for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor and or or for writing to memory and or or storage and or or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor and or . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translations for processor and or . In particular embodiments processor and or may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor and or may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor and or may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors and or or any other suitable processor.

Memory and or may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. Memory and or may store any suitable data or information utilized by base station and or remote transceiver including software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In particular embodiments memory and or may include main memory for storing instructions for processor and or to execute or data for processor and or to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation base station may load instructions from storage and or or another source such as for example another computer system another base station or a remote transceiver to memory and or . Processor and or may then load the instructions from memory and or to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor and or may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor and or may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor and or may then write one or more of those results to memory and or . In particular embodiments processor and or may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory and or as opposed to storage and or or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory and or as opposed to storage and or or elsewhere .

Bus and or may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of base station and or remote transceiver to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus and or may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture USA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus and or may include any number type and or configuration of buses and or where appropriate. In particular embodiments one or more buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor and or to memory and or . Bus and or may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor and or and memory and or and facilitate accesses to memory and or requested by processor and or . In particular embodiments memory and or may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory and or may include one or more memories and or where appropriate.

In particular embodiments storage and or may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage and or may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage and or may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage and or may be internal or external to base station and or remote transceiver where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage and or may be non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage and or may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage and or may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage and or may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and or and storage and or where appropriate.

In particular embodiments interface and or may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between base station remote transceivers any endpoints not depicted being serviced by base station any networks any network devices and or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface and or may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network and or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.

In some embodiments interface and or may comprise one or more radios coupled to one or more antennas. In such embodiments interface and or may receive digital data that is to be sent out to wireless devices such as endpoints via a wireless connection. The radio may convert the digital data into a radio signal having the appropriate center frequency bandwidth parameters and transmission power. The power distribution for the radio signal may have been determined and applied to each subcarrier at base station or the power distribution may be determined at base station and applied by remote transceivers . Similarly the radios may convert radio signals received via the antenna into digital data to be processed by for example processor and or . In some embodiments base station may process the data by for example Determining the received power from each endpoint at each remote transceiver generating a power matrix comprising 1 s and 0 s based on the received power solving linear equations based on the power matrix comparing the result of the solution to a previous result if the result e.g. the value of the objective function is an improvement checking if the solution of the linear equations provides an acceptable solution to the Karuch Kuhn Tucker KKT optimality conditions if the solution of the linear equations provides an acceptable solution determining the power distribution based on the solution of the linear equations and if the result is not an improvement or the solution of the linear equations does not provide an acceptable solution to the KKT conditions generating a new power matrix based on the received power.

Depending on the embodiment interface and or may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network for which distributed antenna system is used. As an example and not by way of limitation distributed antenna system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example distributed antenna system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN an OFDM network a WI FI network a WI MAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Base station and or remote transceivers may include any suitable interface and or for any one or more of these networks where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface and or may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and base station and or remote transceivers . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of interfaces and or for them. Where appropriate interface and or may include one or more device or encoded software drivers enabling processor and or to drive one or more of these I O devices. Interface and or may include one or more interfaces and or where appropriate.

In particular embodiments interface and or may include one or more wired interfaces configured to communicate with module and or . For example in some embodiments the wired interface may comprise an interface compatible with any type of BUS such as an Advanced Technology Attachment ATA BUS. As another example the wired interface may comprise an interface compatible with any type of interconnect interface such as Ethernet Gigabit Ethernet RaipidIO Sub Miniature version A SMA etc. The module may be installed in base station and or remote transceiver to change supplement or otherwise modify the functionality of the base station and or remote transceiver .

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

Particular embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor and or such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory and or one or more portions of storage and or or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a tangible non transitory computer readable storage medium. In particular embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In particular embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Module may be installed when transitioning a base station e.g. a macro base station to a remote transceiver controller. Module may be optional in that in some embodiments processor and interface of base station may be able to provide remote transceiver functionality without module e.g. via an update to the encoded software used by base station . Module may be installed in a slot or receptacle specifically configured to receive module . In certain embodiments module may be configured to be installed in a standard equipment rack. For example one or more components of macro base station may be installed in a standard equipment rack module may be configured to be installed in the existing standard equipment rack. In addition module may include an interface configured to connect to interface e.g. via a standard port or a unique port specific to module or bus . In certain embodiments module may include a processor similar to any of the processors discussed above with respect to processor . The processor of module may among other tasks be used in generating control commands for remote transceivers . The control commands may relate to any of a variety of parameters associated with remote transceivers e.g. frequency channel time slot bandwidth power etc. . Depending on the embodiment the processor of module may work alone or in conjunction with processor .

Module may be installed when transitioning a remote transceiver to for example a pico base station. Module may be optional in that in some embodiments processor and interface of remote transceiver may be able to provide the functionality of module without module e.g. via an update to the encoded software used by remote transceiver . Module may be configured to be installed in a slot or receptacle specifically configured to receive module . In certain embodiments module may be configured to be installed in a standard equipment rack or card slot. For example the components of remote transceiver may be installed in a standard equipment module may be configured to be added to the existing standard equipment rack. Module may also include an interface configured to connect to interface e.g. via a standard port or a unique port specific to module or bus . In certain embodiments module may include a processor similar to any of the processors discussed above with respect to processor . The processor of module may among other tasks be used in locally generating control commands for remote transceiver . Thus remote transceiver may be able to provide wireless connections without requiring control commands from base station . Depending on embodiment the processor of module may work alone or in conjunction with processor . The module may also include an interface or it may configured interface to establish an IP based backhaul connection to a network without having to go through base station .

The components and devices illustrated in form distributed antenna system . Distributed antenna system may be one of many phases of a deployment scheme for a wireless network. From the perspective of an endpoint distributed antenna system may appear as a single base station. An endpoint may be unable to distinguish between a wireless transmission sent by remote transceiver and a wireless transmission sent by remote transceiver . The channel experienced by an endpoint is the sum of the channel responses from each of remote transceivers .

In particular embodiments base station may communicate with remote transceivers using Common Public Radio Interface CPRI . The CPRI specification supports a variety of topologies including ring tree star and chain topologies. The CPRI specification allows multiple remote transceivers to be controlled by the same base station . In some embodiments a CPRI link may be used by base station to send receive different in phase quadrature I Q data to from each different remote transceivers . For example in some embodiments base station may apply the power distribution locally. This may result in each remote transceiver needing its own unique I Q sample. In particular embodiments the CPRI link may be used to send receive a single set of I Q samples from remote transceivers . For example in some embodiments the power distribution may be applied individually at each respective remote transceiver. This may allow a single I Q sample to be used by all remote transceivers .

The allocation of power to different subcarriers at different remote transceivers for different endpoints in the power distribution may be based on the signal quality e.g. the received power associated with communications sent from each endpoint and received at each remote transceiver . In particular embodiments base station may allocate more power to those endpoints having better channel quality at each respective remote transceiver. Depending on the embodiment there may be at least three components used to determine channel response path loss shadowing and multipath. In contrast with shadowing and multipath effects which are often random processes path loss is the most dominant component in the channel response. Path loss may be a function of the distance between an endpoint and a remote transceiver. The closer an endpoint is to a particular remote transceiver the higher the channel gain is between the endpoint and the remote transceiver. In distributed antenna system the varying distances between an endpoint and each remote transceiver may result in varying path losses and channel gains between remote transceivers a particular endpoint.

In particular embodiments the closer an endpoint is to a remote transceiver the greater the power that will be allocated to the subcarriers associated with the endpoint. Conversely the farther an endpoint is from a remote transceiver the less power that will be allocated to subcarriers associated with the endpoint. This may allow each remote transceiver to more efficiently use their available transmission power. The non uniform power distribution to different subcarriers could enhance the signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR at the endpoint by increasing the received signal strength from the closer remote transceivers while the loss of signal strength due to the reduced power from a more distant remote transceiver may be insignificant.

In particular embodiments each remote transceiver may measure the average received power of the subcarriers allocated to each endpoint. This information may then be delivered to base station over a CPRI control channel. Base station may use the measured uplink power to approximate the downlink channel response between each remote transceiver and the endpoints. This estimation may be used by base station to determine the power distribution which base station may then send to remote transceivers using the CPRI control channel.

In some embodiments each remote transceiver may send their own respective I Q data along with I Q data received from the upstream remote transceiver. Base station may use the individual I Q samples to estimate the received downlink power at the endpoint e.g. it may be proportional to the determined uplink power . Using this estimated power base station may determine and apply an amount of amplification or attenuation to the download signal. This may be done without adjusting the phase of the download signal. The amplified data may then be sent to remote transceivers as individual I Q data.

In certain embodiments before base station allocates the distribution of power it may first execute a scheduling algorithm to allocate subcarriers within a channel to the different endpoints. Once the subcarriers have been assigned base station may use the measured uplink power received from remote transceivers to redistribute the downlink power to maximize system capacity. Depending on the embodiment and or scenario base station could use any of a variety of strategies to apply power distribution. For example base station may be able to determine an optimum power distribution by applying KKT optimality conditions with the following optimization formula 

In certain embodiments base station may use the following Lagrangian function of the optimization problem determining an optimum power distribution 

In certain embodiments the equations associated with the KKT optimality conditions may be expressed as follows 

Particular embodiments may avoid the time and or computational cost of solving the non linear equation of KKT 1 and 4 by using an intelligent heuristic algorithm to transform KKT 1 and 4 into a linear problem that may be solved in a greedy manner. When G the power amplification factor of endpoint m at remote transceiver r is positive the corresponding Lagrangian multiplier is equal to zero see e.g. KKT 4 . Then KKT 1 may be simplified as a linear equation of Gand the inverse of the Lagrangian multiplier 

In certain embodiments the elements of the matrices A and B may depend on the selection of positive power amplification gain. Thus base station may select a subset of combinations from among all the possible combinations of endpoints and remote transceivers before transforming the KKT equations into linear equations. However it may not be desirable to try every possible combination because the total number of possible combinations may grow exponentially. Rather certain embodiments may use an intelligent heuristic algorithm to identify the candidates of the positive power amplification gain in a greedy manner.

In certain instances the algorithm may begin by searching for an initial set G of pairings with positive power amplification gain. Each pairing may represent a combination of one endpoint and one remote transceiver. For example if there were two endpoints in the depicted embodiment there would be six pairings 2 endpoints 3 remote transceivers 6 pairing . Based on the equality constraint in KKT 2 for each remote transceiver r there exists at least one positive power amplification gain G 0 assigned to an endpoint m. In certain embodiments and or scenarios pairings having a higher received power e.g. higher Kvalue as discussed below may result in a higher objective value. The objective value may be derived from the objective function which may be designed to distribute power so as to maximize the overall system capacity. Thus certain embodiments may for each remote transceiver select the pairing having the highest received power. Moreover to ensure that each endpoint has at least some positive power amplification gain for at least one remote transceiver base station may for each endpoint that is not included in any of the initially selected pairings determine the pairing having the greatest received power.

In some embodiments the indicator of signal quality which may be proportional to the received power may be computed as

After determining the initial set of positive power gain G 0 the matrices A and B may be determined and used to solve linear equations of A X B. The solution to X may be a potential solution of the optimization problem G. This potential solution may be compared with a previous solution to determine whether the value of the objective function is improved. If the value of the objective function based on the potential solution is an improvement over the previous solution then the potential solution may be accepted for the possible final solution. The potential solution may then be tested to determine if it satisfies the KKT optimality conditions e.g. KKT 1 5 .

On the other hand if one or more Errorvalues exceed the tolerance threshold then the potential solution may not be considered to be the optimal solution since it does not satisfy the KKT conditions. If this occurs then the next candidate for a positive power gain is determined to improve the objective value.

In some embodiments a heuristic approach may be used to determine the next candidate pairing of positive Gfrom the descending order of K. In certain embodiments before the next candidate is considered a potential next candidate may be tested to determine if it will increase the result of the objective function without solving the converted linear equations. For example the potential next candidate Gmay be used improve the objective value if the following inequality holds 

Once the next candidate has been determined both matrices A and B may be updated. The y 1 N x th row of the matrix A may be replaced by the row vector

The above algorithm may be repeated until either a solution is found that satisfies the KKT optimality conditions or the last candidate with the smallest received power e.g. the smallest K is evaluated. In the worst case there may be at most N N iterations. The computing time in each iteration may be based on spending at most O N N in solving linear equations. Therefore the complexity of the proposed algorithm may be O N N .

Once base station has determined how to allocate the downlink power for the various subcarriers at each remote transceiver the power distribution may be applied either at base station or at remote transceivers . For example in some embodiments base station may generate I Q data for each remote transceiver that includes the core data modified by the power distribution this may be done in the frequency domain before base station performs Inverse Discrete Fourier Transform IDFT operations . As another example in some embodiments base station may send the core data and power distribution information separately. For example the core data may be sent via the CPRI data link and the power distribution information may be sent via the CPRI control session. This may allow each remote transceiver to apply the power distribution locally. This may further allow base station to send the same frequency domain data to each remote transceiver thereby reducing the data rate needed for the CPRI link.

Thus far several different embodiments and features have been presented. Particular embodiments may combine one or more of these features depending on operational needs and or component limitations. This may allow for great adaptability of distributed antenna system to the needs of various organizations and users. Some embodiments may include additional features.

The method begins at step with the establishment of connections between a base station and a plurality of remote transceivers. In some embodiments the connection between the base station and the plurality of remote transceivers may comprise a Common Public Radio Interface connection. At step a plurality of wireless connections are established with a plurality of endpoints. The wireless connections are established via one or more of the plurality of remote transceivers. While each endpoint from its perspective may have established a single wireless connection with a single base station each endpoint may actually be sending and receiving communications from a number of remote transceivers. It may be helpful to think of these connections as pairings. A pairing may represent a connection between one remote transceiver and one endpoint.

Model depicts a scenario in which wireless connections are established with two endpoints EP A and EP B via three remote transceivers RT X RT Y and RT Z . This configuration results in six unique pairings XA XB YA YB ZA and ZB . More specifically there are two pairings one for each of endpoints EP A and EP B associated with each of the three remote transceivers RT X RT Y and RT Z .

At step a signal quality is determined for each unique pairing. Each signal quality indication may comprise information from which the base station may be able to determine the relative quality strength and or efficiency of a wireless connection between the respective remote transceiver and the respective endpoint. For example if a particular remote transceiver is able to receive a signal from two endpoints the signal quality indication sent from the particular remote transceiver would include information regarding the relative quality strength and or efficiency of a wireless connection with both of the two endpoints. In certain embodiments the signal quality indication may be based on the received power. That is the signal quality associated with pairing XA may be based on the received power of a communication from EP A received by RT X. Model illustrates an R by M sized signal quality matrix K in which R is the number of remote transceivers three and M is the number of endpoints two . The values provided are to aid in the example and do not necessarily represent actual signal quality values or received power values.

At step a power matrix is generated based on the determined signal quality. The power matrix may comprise the same dimensions as the signal quality matrix. In certain embodiments the power matrix may be initialized to all 0s. This is shown in model . Next for each remote transceiver the endpoint having the highest received power is noted as a 1 in the corresponding element of the power matrix. This is shown in model . In particular endpoint EP A has the best signal at each of the three remote transceivers. Next for each endpoint that has not been assigned any positive power gain the remote transceiver with the best signal for that endpoint is noted as a 1 in the corresponding element of the power matrix. In model it can be seen that there are no is for endpoint EP B thus a 1 is noted for the ZB pairing because the signal from endpoint EP B is best received at remote transceiver RT Z. This is shown in model .

At step a potential solution is determined to linear equations using the power matrix. In some embodiments the linear equation may be of the form A X B where the solution for X is the potential solution. As discussed in more detail below A and B may be formed based on the power matrix and the signal quality for each pairing.

A is a N N N N N N square matrix 9 9 in . Its y 1 N x th row corresponds to the equation of Gin KKT 1. If Gis greater than zero the y 1 N x th row vector is 

The N N r th r 1 N row vector of the matrix A may correspond to an equation in KKT 2. The N N 1 th to N N N th row vectors may be presented as a concatenation of a series of Nscalar matrices and a zero matrix 0 where Iis the N Nidentity matrix. For simplicity the value of the number of subcarriers assigned to each endpoint is represented by the letter Q and elements of the N N 1 th to N N N th row are represented in matrix A in model

B is a N N N 1 column vector. Its y 1 N x th element B is equal to 1 if Gis greater than zero otherwise Bis equal to 0. The zero N N 1 th to N N N th elements of the vector B may all be equal to N the number of subcarriers in a channel.

Once A and B have been defined the equation A X B may be solved for X. X is a N N N 1 column vector 1 . . . 1 where Nis the number of remote transceivers three in and Nis the number of endpoints two in . The resulting X may comprise the solution of power gains for each pair of remote transceiver and endpoint indicated as G above and Lagrangian multipliers indicated as above . The value of the objective function may be computed based on the solution of power gains. At step the potential solution is compared to a previous solution to determine if the potential solution is an improvement. In certain embodiments the comparison may be between the determined objective function and a previously determined objective function. At decision step if the potential solution is an improvement over the previous solution the method continues to step otherwise the method continues to step .

At step the power matrix is modified. The modification may comprise updating the entry of one or more pairings in the power matrix. The updated entry may correspond to the next best signal determined from among the signals that have not already been identified. For example the value associated with pairing XB in the power matrix may be updated to 1 because pairing XB has a better signal than pairing YB. In some embodiments the power matrix may be modified by including a pairing that satisfies the following conditions 

At step one or more error values may be determined based on the potential solution. The error values may be determined using the following equation 

At decision step if one or more of the resulting Errorvalues are greater than a threshold value then the method proceeds to step discussed above if the Errorvalues are below the threshold then the method proceeds to step . If the Errorvalues are below the threshold it may be determined that the potential solution satisfies the KKT optimality condition equations and is the global optimal solution.

At step a power distribution is determined for each endpoint at each remote transceiver based on the potential solution. The power distribution determines the amount of amplification each remote transceiver is to use when transmitting wireless communications to each of the endpoints. In certain embodiments the better e.g. stronger clearer more efficient a wireless signal is between a remote transceiver and an endpoint the greater the amount of power the remote transceiver will use to communicate with the endpoint conversely the worse a wireless signal is the less power the remote transceiver will use to communicate with the endpoint. Thus the power distribution may not be uniform among the endpoints and or remote transceivers.

The method begins at step with the deployment of a base station. In certain embodiments the deployed base station may comprise an interface configured to provide wireless connections between the base station and one or more endpoints. The deployed base station may be coupled to a wide area network such as the Internet through the wireless service provider s backhaul networks. This may allow the base station to provide the endpoints with wireless access to the Internet. The base station may also be able to locally determine and control the parameters of the wireless connections provided by the base station.

In particular embodiments the base station may comprise a module receptacle and a wired interface configured to receive and facilitate communication with a module. The module may be configured to provide the base station with remote transceiver controller functionality. In some embodiments the wired interface and or the module receptacle may be configured specifically for a remote transceiver controller module. In some embodiments the wired interface and or the module receptacle may be generic such that a variety of different modules may be installed in and may communicate with the base station. For example in some embodiments the base station may comprise a standard equipment rack e.g. a 19 inch rack mount into which the module may be installed.

In phase depicts the deployment of base station . Base station has a backhaul connection to network . Network may comprise any one or more of the networks described above with respect to . Base station may be configured to provide wireless connections to any endpoints within coverage area

At step it is determined that a traffic load of the wireless connections exceeds a threshold. The threshold may be based on one or more of a variety of different factors. For example the threshold may be based on the amount of data throughput through the base station the number of endpoints being serviced by the base station at any given time the average data rate or signal strength provide to the endpoints serviced by the base station the cost of new and or existing equipment or any other factor that may be indicative of a need or desirability to expand the capacity or coverage of the wireless network.

At step remote transceivers are deployed. The remote transceivers may be configured to provide wireless connections between the remote transceivers and the endpoints and wired connections between the remote transceivers and the base station. Depending on the scenario and or operational needs the remote transceivers may be deployed to 1 expand the coverage area provided by the already deployed base station 2 improve the wireless signal quality in areas where the wireless signal from the already deployed base station is poor 3 replace the wireless coverage of the base station with the wireless coverage of the remote transceivers 4 provide additional capacity in areas where there is a relatively high concentration of endpoints and or 5 some combination of the above.

Depending on the scenario and or embodiment the deployed remote transceivers may comprise an interface and receptacle that may be used to install a module to convert the remote transceiver to a pico base station. The interface and module may be specifically configured to receive the pico base station module or they may be generic such that any of a variety of different types of modules may be installed therein. The unmodified remote transceiver may include a wireless interface that is used to establish the wireless connections with endpoints that may be within the coverage area of the remote transceiver. The remote transceiver may also have an interface that is used to establish a wired connection to a base station. The wired connection may be used to send and receive data and signaling e.g. control commands to and from the base station.

At step the base station is modified to be able to control the remote transceivers. The modification of the base station may be implemented in a variety of ways depending on the configuration of the base station and or the operational needs of the wireless service provider. For example in some embodiments the base station may be modified via a software update uploaded to the base station via the backhaul connection. As another example the base station may be modified by adding or replacing the hardware in the base station. For example a module may be installed to provide the base station with remote transceiver controller functionality. In some embodiments the modification may convert the base station from a macro base station to a remote transceiver controller. In such embodiments the base station may no longer provide wireless connections directly to the endpoints. Rather it may provide wireless connections through the remote transceivers. In some embodiments the modification may provide remote transceiver controller functionality in addition to the macro base station functionality. In such an embodiment the base station may continue to provide wireless connections directly to the endpoints as well as through the remote transceivers.

In those embodiments in which the base station is modified by installing a module the module may be configured to provide either alone or in conjunction with components already present in the base station remote transceiver controller functionally e.g. generating control commands for the remote transceivers . The module may comprise an interface configured to establish a CPRI connection with the remote transceivers. In some embodiments the CPRI connection may be made via an optical wired connection. The module may also include a processor e.g. an ASIC of an FPGA that is able to generate control commands for the remote transceivers. The control commands may include all manner of signaling including non uniform power distribution channel assignments time slot assignments or any other parameters the remote transceivers may need to communicate wirelessly with the endpoints. The control commands may be formatted to comply with the CPRI standard.

At step wired connections are established between the base station and the remote transceivers. The wired connections may facilitate the base station s control over the remote transceivers. For example the wired connections may allow the modified base station remote transceiver controller to communicate data and or signaling with the remote transceivers. For example the wired connections may be used to communicate data sent to and or received from the endpoints. As another example the wired connections may be used to communicate information regarding the power distribution for each of the remote transceivers. In some embodiments the wired connections may be CPRI connections. The wired connections may be terminated at the installed module or at one or more interfaces already present in the unmodified base station.

After the remote transceivers have been deployed and the wired connections established the base station may begin to generate and transmit control commands. The control commands may provide one or more parameters associated with the one or more remote transceivers. For example the control commands may specify the power distribution. In some embodiments the control commands may conform with the CPRI standard.

In phase depicts the deployed remote transceivers and base station . In the depicted embodiment remote transceivers have been deployed to increase the coverage area of the wireless network as shown by coverage area . Remote transceivers have a wired connection to base station which provides a backhaul connection to network for each of remote transceivers

At step it is determined that the traffic load exceeds a threshold. The threshold may be based on any of the factors discussed above at step . It is not necessary for both thresholds to be based on the same factor or combination of factors. In certain embodiments the threshold may be based on the load placed at particular remote transceivers.

At step the remote transceivers are modified to control themselves. Once modified the remote transceivers may no longer need the control commands from the base station in order to provide endpoints with wireless connections. In some embodiments the remote transceivers may be converted to pico base stations.

In some embodiments the modification may include converting the wired connection from a CPRI connection to an IP connection. As with the base station the modification of the remote transceiver may be performed in any of a variety of ways. For example the modification may be done via a software update or by installing a new hardware module. Depending on the needs or scenario it may not be necessary to modify all the remote transceivers coupled to a particular base station.

In some embodiments in which the remote transceiver is modified by installing a module the module may be configured to provide control for the wireless connection similar to what was previously provided by the base station. The module may include an interface configured to establish a wired IP connection to a wide area network such as the internet or to the wireless service providers network. The IP connection may provide the backhaul connection for the remote transceiver pico base station. The module may also include a processor that is able to generate the control commands. The control commands may provide the various parameters of the wireless connections supplied by the pico base station.

At step a wired connection is established between the remote transceivers and a network. In some embodiments the connection may be an IP based connection. The IP based wired connection may replace the CPRI based wired connection. Depending on the embodiment the IP based wired connection may terminate at an interface on the module or the pico base station.

In phase depicts remote transceivers modified to be pico base stations. Each depicted remote transceiver pico base station has its own backhaul connection to network as does base station . In the depicted scenario base station and pico base stations may each manage their own coverage area. The individual coverage areas may overlap to create coverage area . Coverage area may be greater than coverage area

Although the depicted embodiment began with the deployment of a base station in certain embodiments the service provider may begin by deploying a distributed antennae system. In such an embodiment the wireless service provider may begin by deploying the remote transceivers and the remote transceiver controller. The remote transceivers may be wired to the remote transceiver controller. The method may then proceed as above from step to step .

Some of the steps illustrated in may be combined modified or deleted where appropriate and additional steps may also be added to the flowchart. Additionally steps may be performed in any suitable order without departing from the scope of particular embodiments.

While various implementations and features are discussed with respect to multiple embodiments it should be understood that such implementations and features may be combined re arranged or modified in various embodiments. For example features and functionality discussed with respect to a particular figure such as may be used in connection with features and functionality discussed with respect to another such figure such as according to operational needs or desires.

Although particular embodiments have been described in detail it should be understood that various other changes substitutions and alterations may be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of particular embodiments. For example although an embodiment has been described with reference to a number of elements included within distributed antenna system such as endpoints base stations and remote transceivers these elements may be combined rearranged or positioned in order to accommodate particular routing architectures or needs. In addition any of these elements may be provided as separate external components to distributed antenna system or each other where appropriate. Particular embodiments contemplate great flexibility in the arrangement of these elements as well as their internal components.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained by those skilled in the art and it is intended that particular embodiments encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

