---

title: Method and apparatus for detach handling in multiple access wireless communications
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are provided that facilitate detaching one of a plurality of network connections to ensure state information is retained at one or more network nodes. For a device initiated detach, the device can transmit a handover message related to performing a handover of one network connection to another active network connection, as opposed to explicitly detaching the network connection. This can cause at least some state information, such as a gateway identifier, to be retained in one or more network nodes. For a network initiated detach, a gateway can provision state information to a state information server following receiving a routing tunnel termination message to ensure state information deleted as a part of the detach is re-provisioned to the state information server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08774090&OS=08774090&RS=08774090
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08774090
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110105
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 293 539 entitled DETACH HANDLING FOR A MULTIPLE ACCESS SCENARIO filed Jan. 8 2010 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The following description relates generally to wireless network communications and more particularly to utilizing multiple accesses to communicate with a wireless network.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication content such as for example voice data and so on. Typical wireless communication systems may be multiple access systems capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power . . . . Examples of such multiple access systems may include code division multiple access CDMA systems time division multiple access TDMA systems frequency division multiple access FDMA systems orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA systems and the like. Additionally the systems can conform to specifications such as third generation partnership project 3GPP 3GPP long term evolution LTE ultra mobile broadband UMB evolution data optimized EV DO etc.

Generally wireless multiple access communication systems may simultaneously support communication for multiple mobile devices. Each mobile device may communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from base stations to mobile devices and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from mobile devices to base stations. Further communications between mobile devices and base stations may be established via single input single output SISO systems multiple input single output MISO systems multiple input multiple output MIMO systems and so forth. In addition mobile devices can communicate with other mobile devices and or base stations with other base stations in peer to peer wireless network configurations.

In addition devices can communicate with a wireless network using multiple network connections to increase diversity increase data rate provide additional functionality and or the like. In one example a device can communicate with the wireless network over an LTE connection and a wireless local area network WLAN connection. To facilitate seamless access for example devices can automatically attach and or detach one or more connections based on one or more policies. For example detaching a connection can include clearing state information from one or more network components related to the detaching. In some cases such clearing of state information may cause different network components to have different state information regarding the device. In addition a device can move flows of one connection to another before detaching the connection.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with properly handling detach of one or more connections in a multiple access scenario to ensure consistent states for a device among network components. In one example one or more network components can ensure that a home subscriber server HSS maintains information regarding one or more gateways associated with a device when one or more connections are detached at the device. In this regard for example the device can again attach to the one or more connections and utilize a similar configuration.

According to an example a method for detaching one of multiple connections to one or more wireless networks is provided that includes communicating over a plurality of network connections that each provide access to a gateway and determining to detach at least one of the plurality of network connections. The method further includes performing a handover of one or more flows related to the at least one of the plurality of network connections to a different one of the plurality of network connections and transmitting a handover message related to performing a handover of the at least one of the plurality of network connections to the different one of the plurality of network connections instead of detaching.

In another aspect an apparatus for detaching one of multiple connections to one or more wireless networks is provided that includes at least one processor configured to communicate over a plurality of network connections that each provide access to a gateway and determine to detach at least one of the plurality of network connections. The at least one processor is further configured to perform a handover of one or more flows related to the at least one of the plurality of network connections to a different one of the plurality of network connections and transmit a handover message related to performing a handover of the at least one of the plurality of network connections to the different one of the plurality of network connections instead of detaching. In addition the apparatus includes a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

In yet another aspect an apparatus for detaching one of multiple connections to a wireless network is provided that includes means for communicating over a plurality of network connections that each provide access to a gateway and means for determining to detach at least one of the plurality of network connections. The apparatus further includes means for transmitting a handover message related to performing a handover of the at least one of the plurality of network connections to a different one of the plurality of network connections instead of detaching wherein the means for communicating performs a handover of one or more flows related to the at least one of the plurality of network connections to the different one of the plurality of network connections.

Still in another aspect a computer program product is provided for detaching one of multiple connections to one or more wireless networks including a computer readable medium having code for causing at least one computer to communicate over a plurality of network connections that each provide access to a gateway and code for causing the at least one computer to determine to detach at least one of the plurality of network connections. The computer readable medium further includes code for causing the at least one computer to perform a handover of one or more flows related to the at least one of the plurality of network connections to a different one of the plurality of network connections and code for causing the at least one computer to transmit a handover message related to performing a handover of the at least one of the plurality of network connections to the different one of the plurality of network connections instead of detaching.

Moreover in an aspect an apparatus for detaching one of multiple connections to a wireless network is provided that includes a network communicating component for communicating over a plurality of network connections that each provide access to a gateway and a detachment determining component for determining to detach at least one of the plurality of network connections. The apparatus further includes a handover message provisioning component for transmitting a handover message related to performing a handover of the at least one of the plurality of network connections to a different one of the plurality of network connections instead of detaching wherein the network communicating component performs a handover of one or more flows related to the at least one of the plurality of network connections to the different one of the plurality of network connections.

According to another example a method for provisioning deleted state information to a HSS is provided including receiving a routing tunnel termination message from a mobility management entity MME associated with a detach of one of a plurality of connections between a device and a network. The method further includes transmitting a gateway identifier to a HSS based at least in part on the receiving the routing tunnel termination message.

In another aspect an apparatus for providing state information to a HSS is provided that includes at least one processor configured to receive a routing tunnel termination message from a MME and transmit a gateway identifier to a HSS based at least in part on the receiving the routing tunnel termination message. In addition the apparatus includes a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

In yet another aspect an apparatus for provisioning deleted state information to a HSS is provided that includes means for receiving a routing tunnel termination message from a MME. The apparatus further includes means for transmitting a gateway identifier to a HSS based at least in part on the receiving the routing tunnel termination message.

Still in another aspect a computer program product is provided for provisioning deleted state information to a HSS including a computer readable medium having code for causing at least one computer to receive a routing tunnel termination message from a MME. The computer readable medium further includes code for causing the at least one computer to transmit a gateway identifier to a HSS based at least in part on the receiving the routing tunnel termination message.

Moreover in an aspect an apparatus for provisioning deleted state information to a HSS is provided that includes a detaching component for receiving a routing tunnel termination message from a MME. The apparatus further includes a state information provisioning component for transmitting a gateway identifier to a HSS based at least in part on the receiving the routing tunnel termination message.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As described further herein detaching of a connection in a multiple access scenario can be handled to ensure consistent state of a related device among network components. For example detaching a connection at a device can cause removal or modification of certain state information for the device in one or more network components. In some cases such as where the connection is one of multiple connections removal or modification of state information caused by detaching the connection may not be desired. In a specific example a device can reattach a detached connection to a network using previous state information. Where one or more network components previously deleted the state information inconsistent states can result between the device and certain network components. As described herein for example in a device initiated detach from a network the device can transmit a handover message related to handing over a connection to a different active connection with a different network which can cause components of the network to maintain state information for the device ensuring consistent state information between the device and the network components. In a network initiated detach for example one or more network components can forward device state information to other network components which ensures consistent state information between the device and the network in case the device subsequently reattaches to the network.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal. A terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B evolved Node B eNB or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Referring to illustrated is a wireless communication system that facilitates communicating over multiple network connections. System includes a device that can communicate with an access point to receive access to a network . The network can communicate with a gateway to access a state information server that stores information for device which can include subscription information state information when communicating in one or more networks and or the like or one or more other network components. In addition device can communicate with access point to access network which can also access state information server . In this regard for example device can simultaneously communicate with networks and for increased diversity increased data rate additional functionality and or the like.

For example device can be a UE modem or other tethered device a portion thereof and or the like. Access points and can each be a macrocell femtocell picocell or similar base station a router e.g. a 802.11b WiFi hotspot or similar router relay node device communicating in peer to peer or ad hoc mode with device a portion thereof and or the like. Networks and can each be a 3GPP 3GPP LTE UMTS WiMAX wireless local area network WLAN or similar networks offering access point entry thereto. In addition for example gateway can be a packet data network PDN gateway. In this regard for example gateway can be a home agent gateway for device which networks and can access. State information server can be a home subscription server HSS or similar server that comprises information regarding device or one or more additional devices.

According to an example device can establish network connections to access points and to communicate in networks and . Gateway can also be associated with device for each of the connections. One or more of the network connections can be detached such as the connection through access point in such a way to ensure state information server retains relevant state information for device in case device reattaches the connection to network . In this example it is to be appreciated that device can maintain the connection to network throughout detaching and reattaching the connection to access point . It is to be appreciated that the connection to network can be detached by device or network . For example device can initiate the detach based at least in part on at least one of degraded signal quality of access point lack of available resources a command from a power management function etc. Further for example network can initiate a detach based at least in part on at least one of an indication from access point detecting a change of a subscription corresponding to device etc.

In one example when device initiates the detach from network through access point device can move network communications from access point to access point . This can include for example handing over flows associated with network to network . For example a flow can refer to a connection between two or more nodes over which data packets can be communicated e.g. using an internet protocol IP or other methods . In addition device can transmit an additional handover message such as a binding update message to the gateway instead of subsequently detaching the connection to network . In this regard one or more components of network can remove some resources associated with device that are no longer needed e.g. connection related resources based on the binding update while retaining some state information of device at state information server . As described further herein the retained state information can include an identifier of gateway and or one or more gateways associated with device in network . In another example where network initiates detach of the connection between access point and device network e.g. via one or more components thereof can send state information to state information server following detach of device from access point . For example detach of the connection to network by device can cause one or more components to delete relevant state information from state information server thus gateway network or another component can provision the state information back to state information server after the deletion of the state information caused by the detach.

Turning to an example wireless communication system is illustrated that facilitates managing connections with multiple access points. System comprises a device that can communicate with one or more networks such as networks and e.g. through one or more access points not shown as described above . In addition networks and can communicate with a gateway which can provide access to a state information server and or one or more other components of a home or visited network e.g. policy charging and rules function PCRF etc. . As described device can be a UE modem etc. networks and can each be a 3GPP WLAN or similar network gateway can be a PDN gateway and or a home agent gateway and or the like and state information server can be a HSS etc.

For example device can include a network communicating component that can transmit signals to and or receive signals from one or more networks e.g. via one or more access points a detachment determining component for discerning to detach a connection from one or more of the networks and a handover message provisioning component that can transmit one or more handover messages to perform the detach. Gateway can include a handover component that detects handover of communications from one network connection of a device to another network connection of the device and a resource release indicating component that can specify to one or more components of network or to release resources related to the device based at least in part on the handover.

According to an example network communicating component can facilitate communicating with networks and e.g. via one or more access points . In one example communicating with networks and as opposed to one network can provide connection diversity increased data rates additional services and or the like. For example in this regard network communicating component can include or otherwise utilize a transmitter receiver and or related processors to receive signals from and transmit signals to networks and or . In an example detachment determining component can determine to detach connection from network . For example detachment determining component can determine to detach based at least in part on detecting loss of coverage from network one or more device related parameters such as a power saving function e.g. detach the connection to conserve power utilized to keep the connection active etc. switching off of a receiver related to network etc. based at least in part on updated policies from an access network discovery and selection function ANDSF etc. as described above. In one example network communicating component can handover flows from network to network before detaching and can notify the gateway e.g. by communicating a binding update to gateway . In this example handover component can accordingly update bindings to associate the flows with network .

In addition instead of performing a detach of the network connection handover message provisioning component can transmit another binding update message to gateway that indicates handover of the network connection to network . This can cause state information server to preserve an identifier of gateway as described above and further herein. In this example handover component can receive the binding update or other indication of handover from device e.g. through network or . Resource release indicating component can accordingly notify network or one or more components thereof to release resources related to device based at least in part on the handover. In this regard for example by indicating handover as the reason for releasing resources related to device network or the one or more components thereof can release the resources without causing removal certain state information related to device from state information server as may occur in the case of indicating detach of the connection to the one or more components.

In one specific example network can be a 3GPP LTE network and or network can be a WLAN. In this example detachment determining component can discern to detach the 3GPP LTE network connection. Thus network communicating component can optionally handover IP flows from the 3GPP LTE network to the WLAN network and can transmit a binding update to gateway to facilitate updating bindings. In addition handover message provisioning component for example can transmit a dual stack mobile internet protocol DSMIP handover message e.g. another binding message indicating handover of the 3GPP LTE connection to the WLAN network connection instead of indicating an explicit detach from the 3GPP LTE network connection. For example handover component can receive the DSMIP handover message release resources routing addresses etc. related to the 3GPP LTE connection and resource release indicating component can accordingly notify an MME of the 3GPP network to release resources due to handover. The MME can accordingly not delete an identifier of the gateway from state information server which can be an HSS in this example as it would for an explicit detach of the 3GPP LTE connection.

Thus the gateway can continue to be associated with device in the state information server so where network communicating component reattaches to network via the same or another access point gateway can be reassigned to the device for the reattached connection based at least in part on the identifier stored at the state information server e.g. HSS . For example network communicating component can receive the gateway assignment and can accordingly communicate one or more packets to the gateway following reattaching the connection. This can prevent device ending up with two gateways as could happen where the gateway identifier is deleted from the state information server .

Referring to illustrated is an example wireless communication system that facilitates ensuring state information for a device is retained when detaching a connection. System comprises a device that communicates with a network e.g. via one or more access points . Network or one or more components thereof can communicate with a gateway to provide wireless network access to device and or one or more other devices. System also comprises a state information server that maintains state information for one or more devices as described. For example device as described can be a UE modem etc. network can be a 3GPP LTE network WLAN and or the like and state information server can be a HSS etc. In addition for example gateway can be a PDN gateway and or a home agent gateway for device for example .

Gateway can comprise a device communicating component that can facilitate communicating with one or more devices through a network access point etc. a detaching component that can facilitate detaching a connection between the device and the network and a state information provisioning component that can ensure one or more servers retain device state information despite detaching the connection. According to an example device communicating component can communicate with device through network and or one or more other network components not shown and provide device communications to from one or more other network components such as state information server or other components not shown to provide one or more services to device . Detaching component can determine to detach the connection between network and device and or that the connection is being detached. As described for example device can still communicate with gateway through a different network. For example detaching component can determine to detach the network connection based at least in part on receiving a detachment request from network or one or more components thereof a routing tunnel termination from an MME etc. Detaching component can release resources routing addresses etc. related to device for example. In another example detaching component can communicate an indication of detachment to network or one or more components thereof to cause release of resources by network as well.

Moreover for example state information server can delete state information related to device based at least in part on detaching the network connection e.g. based at least in part on receiving a detach notification related to device from one or more other network nodes such as a mobility management entity MME or other component not shown etc. . In this example state information provisioning component can provide the state information related to device to state information server following deletion. In a specific example the state information can relate to an identifier of gateway and thus state information server can delete the identifier based at least in part on a command from a component of network associated with device as part of detaching from network . In this regard for example state information provisioning component can provide the identifier of gateway to state information server following the detach. Thus as described above state information server can retain the gateway identifier for device to handle reattachment of a device connection to network .

In one example state information provisioning component can initialize a timer before providing the state information to state information server to avoid a race condition with an MME that causes deletion of the state information from state information server . In this example the MME first completes the deletion process and after expiration of the timer state information provisioning component can provide the state information back to state information server . In this regard for example state information provisioning component initializes the timer using a value determined based at least in part on a timer utilized by the MME for deleting the state information from the state information server e.g. which can be provisioned to the gateway from the state information server . Thus where the state information is an identifier of the gateway and device reattaches to network or another access point of the same network gateway can be assigned for device communication based on the state information at state information server . For example as described device can be communicating with gateway through a disparate access point upon reattaching to network or another access point of the same network.

Turning to an example wireless communication system that facilitates retaining device state information for detaching a connection is illustrated. System can include a UE that can communicate with an MME e.g. through one or more access points and or other network nodes or one or more other 3GPP LTE network components that provide authentication authorization for UE . MME can communicate with a PDN gateway GW to communicate information to and from a HSS . For example PDN GW can be a home agent GW of UE . In addition UE can communicate with a WiFi access point AP to additionally communicate with PDN GW . UE can be connected to 3GPP and WiFi with flow mobility through MME and WiFi AP . Flow mobility for example can relate to the ability to transfer flows of one connection e.g. the 3GPP connection to another connection e.g. the WiFi connection .

In this example HSS can include an identifier of PDN GW for associating to UE . UE can determine to detach the network connection to the 3GPP network and MME for example. In this example UE can move flows from the 3GPP connection to the WiFi connection using flow mobility at and can accordingly communicate an associated message e.g. a binding update to PDN GW . In addition instead of performing a detach of the 3GPP connection UE transmits a binding update to and receives a binding acknowledgment from PDN GW e.g. through MME and or WiFi AP . The binding update acknowledgement as described can relate to performing a DSMIP handover of the 3GPP connection to the WiFi connection. Thus PDN GW can indicate a resource release to MME specifying a handover identifier so MME does not delete state information such as an identifier of PDN GW from the HSS for UE . In this regard UE can subsequently reattach the 3GPP connection and receive a PDN GW assignment from HSS based at least in part on HSS retaining the identifier. For example where UE maintains a connection to WiFi AP during detachment reattachment of the 3GPP connection assignment of PDN GW can be important since UE continues to communicate with PDN GW through the WiFi AP .

Referring to an example wireless communication system that facilitates retaining device state information for detaching a connection is illustrated. System can include a UE that can communicate with an MME e.g. through one or more access points and or other network nodes or one or more other 3GPP LTE network components that provide authentication authorization for UE . MME can communicate with a PDN GW to communicate information to and from a HSS . In addition UE can communicate with a WiFi AP to additionally communicate with PDN GW . UE can be connected to 3GPP and WiFi with flow mobility through MME and WiFi AP . In this example HSS can include an identifier of PDN GW for associating to UE .

MME can begin to detach a 3GPP connection with UE which can be based at least in part on determining the UE is not accessible subscription information for the UE has changed etc. as described. In this regard MME can transmit a routing tunnel termination to PDN GW . This can relate to a general packet radio service GPRS tunneling protocol GTP and or the like which can be established for forwarding UE communications to PDN GW through MME and or other network components. Based at least in part on receiving the routing tunnel termination PDN GW can optionally initialize a race condition timer to allow MME to remove state information from HSS as described. In either case at PDN GW can provision its identifier to HSS . Thus HSS can assign the PDN GW to UE upon subsequently reattaching UE to the 3GPP network.

Referring to example methodologies relating to ensuring state information is retained when detaching from one of a plurality of network connections are illustrated. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with one or more embodiments occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example it is to be appreciated that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with one or more embodiments.

Referring to an example methodology is displayed that facilitates detaching one of a plurality of network connections by handing over to another one of the plurality of network connections. At a plurality of network connections each providing access to a gateway can be communicated over. As described the plurality of network connections can include a 3GPP WLAN or similar network connections. In addition the gateway can be a home agent gateway. At it can be determined to detach at least one of the plurality of network connections. For example detaching can be determined based at least in part on loss or degradation of signal quality with a related access point decrease in available resources a power management command etc. as described.

At a handover of one or more flows related to at least one of the plurality of network connections to a different one of the plurality of network connections can be performed. This can include for example transmitting a binding update to a gateway to facilitate updating bindings related to the flows. Moreover at a handover message related to performing a handover of the at least one of the plurality of network connections to the different one of the plurality of network connections can be transmitted instead of detaching. In this regard for example a state information server can retain information related to the one of the plurality of network connections that it would not retain if the connection was detached. In a specific example as described above the handover message can relate to performing a DSMIP handover from a 3GPP network to a WLAN network can cause a HSS to retain an identifier of a gateway utilized in the 3GPP network e.g. and the WLAN network which can be subsequently provisioned to the device from the HSS when reattaching the 3GPP connection.

Turning to an example methodology is displayed that facilitates provisioning a gateway identifier to a HSS following device detach. At a routing tunnel termination message can be received from an MME. This message can be a GTP termination message indicating detach of a 3GPP connection related to a device for example. At a gateway identifier can be transmitted to a HSS based at least in part of receiving the routing tunnel termination message. As described for example the gateway identifier can have been deleted by an MME following detach of the device and thus the gateway identifier is transmitted again to the HSS. This can be based at least in part on a timer for example as described above.

It will be appreciated that in accordance with one or more aspects described herein inferences can be made regarding determining a timer value for transmitting a gateway identifier to an HSS and or the like as described. As used herein the term to infer or inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

Mobile device can additionally comprise memory that is operatively coupled to processor and that can store data to be transmitted received data information related to available channels data associated with analyzed signal and or interference strength information related to an assigned channel power rate or the like and any other suitable information for estimating a channel and communicating via the channel. Memory can additionally store protocols and or algorithms associated with estimating and or utilizing a channel e.g. performance based capacity based etc. .

It will be appreciated that the data store e.g. memory described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Processor can further be optionally operatively coupled to a network communicating component which can be similar to network communicating component a detachment determining component which can be similar to detachment determining component and or a handover message provisioning component which can be similar to handover message provisioning component . Mobile device still further comprises a modulator that modulate signals for transmission by transmitter to for instance a base station another mobile device etc. Although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that the network communicating component detachment determining component handover message provisioning component demodulator and or modulator can be part of the processor or multiple processors not shown .

Referring to a computer device is displayed in accordance with aspects described herein. In an example computer device can be a gateway or similar network node. Computer device includes a processor for carrying out processing functions associated with one or more of components and functions described herein. Processor can include a single or multiple set of processors or multi core processors. Moreover processor can be implemented as an integrated processing system and or a distributed processing system.

Computer device further includes a memory such as for storing local versions of applications being executed by processor . Memory can include substantially any type of memory usable by a computer such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM tapes magnetic discs optical discs volatile memory non volatile memory and any combination thereof.

Further computer device includes a communications component that provides for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware software and services as described herein. Communications component may carry communications between components on computer device as well as between computer device and external devices such as devices located across a communications network and or devices serially or locally connected to computer device . For example communications component may include one or more buses and may further include transmit chain components and receive chain components associated with a transmitter and receiver respectively operable for interfacing with external devices.

Additionally computer device may further include a data store which can be any suitable combination of hardware and or software that provides for mass storage of information databases and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example data store may be a data repository for applications not currently being executed by processor .

Computer device may optionally include an interface component that can be operable to receive inputs from a user of computer device and further operable to generate outputs for presentation to the user. Interface component may include one or more input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a number pad a mouse a touch sensitive display a navigation key a function key a microphone a voice recognition component any other mechanism capable of receiving an input from a user or any combination thereof. Further interface component may include one or more output devices including but not limited to a display a speaker a haptic feedback mechanism a printer any other mechanism capable of presenting an output to a user or any combination thereof. In another example interface component can be an application programming interface API that can be accessed by one or more devices to perform functions on computer device .

In addition in the depicted example computer device can optionally include one or more of a handover component resource release indicating component device communicating component detaching component or state information provisioning component . Thus these components and or which can be similar to other components described herein can utilize processor to execute instructions associated therewith memory to store information associated therewith communications component to carry out communications and or the like as described. In addition it is to be appreciated that computer device can include additional or alternative components described herein.

With reference to illustrated is a system that detaches a network connection by performing handover of the network connection to another network connection. For example system can reside at least partially within an device etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping can include an electrical component for communicating over a plurality of network connections that each provide access to a gateway . For example the plurality of network connections can include a 3GPP connection WLAN connection etc. Further logical grouping can comprise an electrical component for determining to detach at least one of the plurality of network connections .

As described for example electrical component can determine to perform the detach based on one of various indicators such as signal quality degradation below a threshold level lack of resources an indication from a power management function and or the like. In addition as described electrical component can additionally handover flows of the at least one of the plurality of network connections to the different one of the plurality of network connections. In this regard logical grouping can include an electrical component for transmitting a handover message related to performing a handover of the at least one of the plurality of network connections to a different one of the plurality of network connections instead of detaching . Thus as described state information regarding system can be retained at a state information server as opposed to where system explicitly detaches from the one of the plurality of networks.

For example electrical component can include a network communicating component . In addition for example electrical component in an aspect can include a detachment determining component as described above. Furthermore electrical component in an aspect can include a handover message provisioning component as described. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with the electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of the electrical components and can exist within memory .

In one example electrical components and can comprise at least one processor or each electrical component and can be a corresponding module of at least one processor. Moreover in an additional or alternative example electrical components and can be a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium where each electrical component and can be corresponding code.

With reference to illustrated is a system that provisions a gateway identifier to a state information server. For example system can reside at least partially within a gateway etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping can include an electrical component for receiving a routing tunnel termination message from a MME . As described the routing tunnel termination message can be a GTP tunnel termination or similar message that indicates detachment of a device from a 3GPP connection.

Further logical grouping can comprise an electrical component for transmitting a gateway identifier to a HSS based at least in part on the receiving the routing tunnel termination message . As described for example the gateway identifier can be deleted by the MME once the device detaches from the 3GPP connection thus electrical component re provisions the gateway identifier to the HSS for subsequent assignment to the device where the device reattaches the 3GPP connection. For example in an aspect electrical component can include detaching component as described above. In addition for example electrical component in an aspect can include state information provisioning component . Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with the electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of the electrical components and can exist within memory .

In one example electrical components and can comprise at least one processor or each electrical component and can be a corresponding module of at least one processor. Moreover in an additional or alternative example electrical components and can be a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium where each electrical component and can be corresponding code.

Referring now to a wireless communication system is illustrated in accordance with various embodiments presented herein. System comprises a base station that can include multiple antenna groups. For example one antenna group can include antennas and another group can comprise antennas and and an additional group can include antennas and . Two antennas are illustrated for each antenna group however more or fewer antennas can be utilized for each group. Base station can additionally include a transmitter chain and a receiver chain each of which can in turn comprise a plurality of components associated with signal transmission and reception e.g. processors modulators multiplexers demodulators demultiplexers antennas etc. as is appreciated.

Base station can communicate with one or more mobile devices such as mobile device and mobile device however it is to be appreciated that base station can communicate with substantially any number of mobile devices similar to mobile devices and . Mobile devices and can be for example cellular phones smart phones laptops handheld communication devices handheld computing devices satellite radios global positioning systems PDAs and or any other suitable device for communicating over wireless communication system . As depicted mobile device is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to mobile device over a forward link and receive information from mobile device over a reverse link . Moreover mobile device is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to mobile device over a forward link and receive information from mobile device over a reverse link . In a frequency division duplex FDD system forward link can utilize a different frequency band than that used by reverse link and forward link can employ a different frequency band than that employed by reverse link for example. Further in a time division duplex TDD system forward link and reverse link can utilize a common frequency band and forward link and reverse link can utilize a common frequency band.

Each group of antennas and or the area in which they are designated to communicate can be referred to as a sector of base station . For example antenna groups can be designed to communicate to mobile devices in a sector of the areas covered by base station . In communication over forward links and the transmitting antennas of base station can utilize beamforming to improve signal to noise ratio of forward links and for mobile devices and . Also while base station utilizes beamforming to transmit to mobile devices and scattered randomly through an associated coverage mobile devices in neighboring cells can be subject to less interference as compared to a base station transmitting through a single antenna to all its mobile devices. Moreover mobile devices and can communicate directly with one another using a peer to peer or ad hoc technology as depicted. According to an example system can be a multiple input multiple output MIMO communication system.

At base station traffic data for a number of data streams is provided from a data source to a transmit TX data processor . According to an example each data stream can be transmitted over a respective antenna. TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.

The coded data for each data stream can be multiplexed with pilot data using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM techniques. Additionally or alternatively the pilot symbols can be frequency division multiplexed FDM time division multiplexed TDM or code division multiplexed CDM . The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and can be used at mobile device to estimate channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream can be modulated e.g. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme e.g. binary phase shift keying BPSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK M phase shift keying M PSK M quadrature amplitude modulation M QAM etc. selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream can be determined by instructions performed or provided by processor .

The modulation symbols for the data streams can be provided to a TX MIMO processor which can further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . TX MIMO processor then provides NT modulation symbol streams to NT transmitters TMTR through . In various embodiments TX MIMO processor applies beamforming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.

Each transmitter receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and upconverts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Further NT modulated signals from transmitters through are transmitted from NT antennas through respectively.

At mobile device the transmitted modulated signals are received by NR antennas through and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective receiver RCVR through . Each receiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and downconverts a respective signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

An RX data processor can receive and process the NR received symbol streams from NR receivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide NT detected symbol streams. RX data processor can demodulate deinterleave and decode each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor and TX data processor at base station .

The reverse link message can comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. The reverse link message can be processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by transmitters through and transmitted back to base station .

At base station the modulated signals from mobile device are received by antennas conditioned by receivers demodulated by a demodulator and processed by a RX data processor to extract the reverse link message transmitted by mobile device . Further processor can process the extracted message to determine which precoding matrix to use for determining the beamforming weights.

Processors and can direct e.g. control coordinate manage etc. operation at base station and mobile device respectively. Respective processors and can be associated with memory and that store program codes and data. Processors and can also perform computations to derive frequency and impulse response estimates for the uplink and downlink respectively.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules components and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more aspects the functions methods or algorithms described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also substantially any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

