---

title: Systems and methods for automatically synchronizing data using a mobile communications device
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for automatically synchronizing data using a mobile communications device (MCD). According to one embodiment, a method for automatically synchronizing data using an MCD is provided. The method may include: associating an automatic synchronization command with an event occurrence on an MCD and at least one MCD application; and, upon detecting the event occurrence, executing the automatic synchronization command to cause automatic synchronization of data between memory of the MCD and at least one remote server associated with the MCD application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146936&OS=09146936&RS=09146936
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 09146936
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110124
---
Aspects of the invention relate generally to mobile communications devices and more particularly to systems and methods for automatically synchronizing data using a mobile communications device.

Use of mobile communications devices MCDs such as cellular phones smart phones email devices etc. continues to increase. The number and complexity of available applications for use with these MCDs are also proliferating such that users expect to use their MCDs to access and fully utilize a variety of applications. More and more of these MCD applications include synchronization operations whereby data is synchronized between the MCDs and remote back end servers supporting the MCD applications over the wireless network. In some instances data maintained or entered on an MCD for use with a certain application is synchronized with the remote server supporting that application so the data can be stored updated and maintained by other devices and from other locations and for display via other communications channels. Similarly some MCD applications allow data to be downloaded to the MCD when in use such as to be able to display recent updates status changes messages and the like.

Therefore a need exists for simplified use of MCD applications and for systems and methods that allow for automatically synchronizing data using an MCD.

Some or all of the above needs and or problems may be addressed by certain embodiments of the invention. Embodiments of the invention may include systems and methods for automatically synchronizing data using an MCD. According to one embodiment a method for automatically synchronizing data using an MCD is provided. The method may include associating an automatic synchronization command with an event occurrence on an MCD and at least one MCD application and upon detecting the event occurrence executing the automatic synchronization command to cause automatic synchronization of data between memory of the MCD and at least one remote server associated with the MCD application.

According to another embodiment a computer readable media for automatically synchronizing data is provided. The computer readable media may have computer program instructions which when executed by at least one MCD processor cause the at least one MCD processor to associate an automatic synchronization command with an event occurrence on an MCD and at least one MCD application and upon detecting the event occurrence execute the automatic synchronization command to cause automatic synchronization of data between memory of the MCD and at least one remote server associated with the MCD application.

Additional systems methods apparatus features and aspects may be realized through the techniques of various embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein with reference to the description and to the drawings and are considered a part of the claimed invention.

Embodiments of the invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Certain embodiments include systems and methods for automatically synchronizing MCD application data using an MCD in response to the user s selection of an input key or other event occurrence. The embodiments described herein provide simplified means to synchronize data as well as the ability to configure synchronization settings according to a user s preferences and habits. According to one embodiment programming logic and synchronization configuration settings and mappings can define an automatic synchronization command that can be associated with an MCD event occurrence e.g. selection of an input or other predetermined function or use of the MCD etc. and one or more MCD applications that are to be synchronized. When a user causes the event occurrence e.g. selects an input etc. by using the MCD the automatic synchronization logic will initiate automatic synchronization by the one or more MCD applications that are associated with that particular event occurrence. Depending upon the MCD application and optionally any user defined synchronization parameters synchronization may synchronize data stored in the MCD to one or more remote back end servers associated with the MCD applications being synchronized. The event occurrence may be related to newly generated or data otherwise stored on the MCD which is to be synchronized with the remote servers. Synchronization may also or instead cause synchronization of newly generated data available from the remote servers for importing and storing on the memory of the MCD in association with the MCD application being synchronized. Thus the embodiments described herein provide a simplified means to automatically synchronize data in response to the user s selection or other input to an MCD.

As discussed MCDs are currently being utilized for far more than voice or text communications. Many users utilize their MCDs to use software applications and to access web based or other remote applications. Many MCD applications involve synchronization of data over the wireless network between the MCDs and remote back end servers supporting the MCD applications. Conventionally some MCD applications synchronize automatically in the background or others synchronize upon invoking the application or periodically while utilizing the application. Yet other MCD applications require specific user input and commands to cause synchronization and currently do not provide a means for automatic synchronization. The embodiments described herein however provide programming logic that empowers a user to define when and how MCD applications are synchronized automatically and in response to specific MCD input or other event occurrence. Accordingly by these embodiments a user can configure an event occurrence e.g. a hard key or soft key etc. that when selected or performed will automatically cause synchronization of data by one or more MCD applications. According to one embodiment automatic synchronization mappings may be defined by classifying MCD applications e.g. according to their function typical operations data type etc. and then mapping an associated event occurrence with the MCD application classification. This process allows synchronization of every MCD application having the same MCD application classification. For example selection of a camera key on an MCD may cause synchronization of picture files stored on the MCD with one or more MCD applications that utilize pictures e.g. social networking sites web based photograph sharing applications etc. . As another example an MCD input key can be associated with an automatic synchronization command for a particular MCD application in a manner similar to a shortcut key assignment so that upon selecting of the assigned MCD input key the mapped MCD application will automatically synchronize as configured. Thus synchronization can occur at the selection of a single key without requiring the user to invoke an application or manually initiate synchronization. The data synchronized may be associated with the event occurrence such as data that is generated as a result of the event occurrence operated on as a result of the event occurrence or otherwise retrieved with the input function or application utilized by the event occurrence. In other embodiments however the data synchronized may be entirely independent of or have no clear relevance to the event occurrence such as a favorites key which causes automatic synchronization.

As used herein the terms MCD and mobile communications device generally refer to any communications device operable for mobile or wireless voice and or text communication such as but not limited to a cellular or other mobile phone a smart phone a pager a mobile email device a tablet computer a digital audio video player or any other similar device and or any combination thereof. The term MCD application can refer to any software based application or function operable for execution by an MCD which may be operable to interact with one or more remote or back end servers over a network. Example MCD applications may include but are not limited to web based digital music stores web based streaming music sites web based file sharing sites web based photograph hosting or storing sites web based social network sites e.g. Facebook.com by Facebook Inc. of Palo Alto Calif. Friendster.com by Friendster Inc. of Mountain View Calif. Myspace.com by News Corp. of Beverly Hills Calif. Twitter.com by Twitter Inc. of San Francisco Calif. Foursquare of New York N.Y. LinkedIn by LinkedIn Corporation of Mountain View Calif. and Flickr by Yahoo Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. etc. contact management applications email applications web based retail sites short message service SMS applications multimedia messages service MMS applications bill payment applications web based informational sites image or text based recognition services and the like. It is appreciated that the aforementioned list of example MCD applications is provided for illustrative purposes and is not limiting. The embodiments described herein may be utilized with any suitable application executable by an MCD.

More details regarding the various means for implementing the embodiments of the invention are provided below with reference to .

An example system will now be described illustratively with respect to . The system may include an MCD which is operable to communicate over one or more wireless networks using any suitable wireless communications protocol e.g. cellular Wi Fi Internet communications WiMAX network communications and the like . The MCD may be associated with a wireless network operator not shown as a subscriber of wireless communications services provided by the wireless network operator. According to some embodiments the wireless network operator may be utilized to facilitate in part automatic synchronization between an MCD and a remote server such as to monitor data transmission allow opting in or opting out of data synchronization services and or request confirmation of synchronization communications. The wireless network may be any wireless network operable for wireless communications operating under any cellular or other wireless network protocol e.g. GSM CDMA TDMA etc. . In addition the wireless network may provide wireless access by MCDs to the Internet or any other public or private network which may be wired or wireless for example to access the world wide web or to utilize HTTP communications sessions such as when retrieving MMS messages and or mobile emails.

An automatic synchronization module may be configured to provide programming logic to facilitate configuring and implementing automatic synchronization of MCD application data in response to the detection of an event occurrence. More specifically the automatic synchronization module may be configured to present user interfaces on one or more displays of the MCD for receiving configuration and synchronization parameter input e.g. mappings synchronization preferences usernames passwords account information etc. store synchronization mappings and parameters for recall during automatic synchronization operations and facilitate the operation of individual programming modules configured to detect event occurrences e.g. broadcast modules and to initiate synchronization e.g. listener modules . More details of the operations and configuration of an automatic synchronization module are described by example with reference to .

Broadcast modules may be configured to provide programming logic that is associated with one or more event occurrences to allow detecting an event occurrence and generating a broadcast trigger or other programming event or command in response thereto. According to one embodiment a single broadcast module may be configured to monitor and detect each of the event occurrences that have been configured to initiate automatic synchronization. According to another embodiment however a separate broadcast module may be provided for each event occurrence such that multiple broadcast modules are provided if multiple event occurrences are to be monitored. According to certain embodiments a broadcast module may be configured for execution by the operating system of the MCD to detect the associated event occurrence or occurrences and to generate a broadcast trigger or other event that calls a specific listener module or modules or otherwise generates an event detectable by a listener module or modules . One example embodiment may utilize a uniform resource identifier URI convention to identify the event occurrences and to generate the corresponding broadcast triggers or other events to trigger corresponding listener modules . According to various embodiments broadcast modules may be programmed and provided by a mobile device manufacturer and or by a third party provider such as a service provider providing the automatic synchronization functionality for specific MCD types and or operating specific operating systems .

Listener modules may likewise be configured to provide programming logic that is associated with one or more MCD applications to be synchronized and configured to issue an automatic synchronization command that initiates a synchronization operation by the respective MCD application in response to an MCD event occurrence. According to one embodiment a separate listener module is provided for each MCD application to be synchronized. According to another embodiment however a single listener module may be configured to initiate synchronization operations for multiple MCD applications . According to one embodiment the listener modules may be programmed by the MCD application provider to provide a standardized routine or interface e.g. an application programming interface API that can be called by an associated broadcast module . In another embodiment the listener modules can be stand alone modules operable to call an open interface of the corresponding MCD application . For example the listener modules may be programmed and provided by a mobile device manufacturer and or by a third party provider such as a service provider providing the automatic synchronization functionality and providing specific modules or add ons that synchronize with certain MCD applications .

The processor or processors may be operable to execute the programmed logic and the operating system and may be any microprocessor microcontroller or any other processing device. The programmed logic may also include conventional programming instructions to perform incoming voice and data transmissions outbound data and voice transmissions to generate and display user interfaces and associated data to generate user notifications to receive instructions and commands from a user and the like as is generally performed by a conventional MCD . The transceiver is operable for receiving and transmitting wireless signals such as may be used for carrying voice and or data e.g. voice calls wireless network communications SMS messages MMS messages mobile email etc. . Example wireless transceivers include but are not limited to radio frequency transceivers IEEE 802.11 type also referred to as Wi Fi Bluetooth infrared and the like. The GPS receiver is in communication with the data communications bus and operable to receive GPS signals from GPS satellite transmitters and communicate the same for operation by the programmed logic for analyzing and utilizing GPS position data. The NFC transceiver is operable for receiving and transmitting NFC communications such as but not limited to communications according to the ISO IEC 14443 standard or other short range communications. The NFC transceiver may be utilized by the MCD to detect location context or retrieve product identifiers e.g. product SKUs or other identifiers etc. . In addition an input output I O controller is operable to facilitate control of input and output to and from the user via the display and the keypad entry and optionally via other interface devices. The I O controller can thus be implemented in hardware software firmware or any other combination thereof and may include interface drivers buffers or interrupts to handle the input and output of audio video data graphics etc. The display may be any display for displaying graphics video text etc. on the MCD such as but not limited to the screen e.g. LCD touch screen monitor and or other display. The keypad entry component may be any input device such as but not limited to conventional phone type keypad e.g. 0 9 plus characters QWERTY keypad touch screen interface graffiti interface and or any other input device. According to various embodiments described herein the event occurrences represent one or more selections made by the user via the keypad entry component such as the selection of a hard key or a soft key via a touch screen interface. It is appreciated that the aforementioned features of an MCD are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to be limiting.

With continued reference to multiple remote servers may also be provided which are operable to facilitate communications and other operations of respective MCD applications. Each remote server may be associated with a respective MCD application that may be stored on and operated by an MCD . Each remote server may be in communication with the Internet allowing access to and or data synchronization with the back end operations of respective MCD applications. For example an MCD application may be a mobile application executable by an MCD to provide access to a web based application having back end operations hosted by or otherwise facilitated by the operation of a respective remote server . Thus access to a web based application associated with an MCD application may be provided by way of its associated remote server . Each remote server may be any suitable processor driven computing device operable for network communications and configured to facilitate data synchronization with MCDs .

The system may also optionally include one or more computers which are operable for direct wired and or wireless communications with an MCD and or for communications with the Internet or any other public or private network which may be wired or wireless . According to one embodiment the one or more computers may be utilized to facilitate configuration of automatic synchronization functionality such as to facilitate defining synchronization mappings between MCD event occurrences and MCD applications and or defining synchronization parameters e.g. user preferences usernames passwords account information etc. . In addition according to one embodiment data synchronization may occur between an MCD and a computer . Accordingly each computer may be any suitable processor driven computing device operable for receiving user input as well as for network communications and or direct communications with an MCD .

Each of the aforementioned systems or system components are configured for accessing and reading associated computer readable media having data stored thereon and or computer executable instructions for implementing the various methods described herein. By executing computer executable instructions each of these computer systems may form a special purpose computer or a particular machine. As used herein the term computer readable medium may describe any form of computer memory or memory device.

Due to network connectivity various methodologies described herein may be practiced in the context of distributed computing environments. Although the system is shown for simplicity as including one intervening wireless network and Internet it is to be understood that any other network configuration is possible which may optionally include a plurality of networks each with devices such as gateways and routers for providing connectivity between or among networks.

The system shown in and described with respect to is provided by way of example only. Numerous other operating environments system architectures and device configurations are possible. Accordingly embodiments of the invention should not be construed as being limited to any particular operating environment system architecture or device configuration.

With reference to a first embodiment is shown having a single broadcast module configured to generate a single trigger upon the detection of a particular event occurrence such as but not limited to user selection of a hard key or soft key a predetermined function or application being invoked or receipt of a predetermined message type and or message having predetermined content. The broadcast module or other programming logic such as the automatic synchronization module generates a single trigger event which is to be detected by multiple listener modules each associated with a different MCD application . According to one embodiment the broadcast module may be preprogrammed and preconfigured to identify which listener modules and or which MCD applications are to be invoked for data synchronization based on previously defined synchronization mappings and parameters data such as may be provided by an MCD user during configuration or by a service provider offering the automatic synchronization functionality for the MCD . According to another embodiment the broadcast module may be programmed for more dynamic operation such as to access the synchronization mappings and parameters data upon detecting an event occurrence to determine which MCD applications are to be synchronized and thus which listener modules and or MCD applications the broadcast trigger event is to invoke.

The method may begin at block in which automatic synchronization logic is provided for the MCD such as the automatic synchronization module broadcast module s and listener module s described in detail with reference to . These modules and associated logic may be utilized together to perform an automatic synchronization command or operation upon the detection of an event occurrence as further described with reference to .

At block each of the MCD applications to be synchronized are identified. Any number of user interfaces may be provided to allow displaying available MCD applications and selecting or otherwise designating or inputting an identifier for the MCD applications to be synchronized.

At block one or more of the MCD applications to be synchronized can be classified according to its functionality purpose industry or other classifying factor. MCD application classifications can be utilized to allow automatically synchronizing all MCD applications having the same or similar classifications in response to the same event occurrence which simplifies the configuration effort required of the user if at all. Accordingly synchronization mappings can be configured to allow manually defining associations between an event occurrence and one or more MCD applications and or to allow defining associations between an event occurrence and one or more MCD application classifications. It is appreciated that according to various embodiments MCD application classifications can be defined in a number of ways including but not limited to by a user by associating various MCD applications with the MCD application classifications or by a provider by providing predefined MCD application classifications and associations with known MCD applications. Example MCD application classifications may include but are not limited to social networks location based music media photographs videos contacts calendar retail information user status device status and the like.

At block synchronization mappings are defined between one or more event occurrences and one or more MCD applications that are to be synchronized in response to the one or more event occurrences. An event occurrence may generally refer to any event or activity performed with or by an MCD such as but not limited to user selection of a hard key e.g. 0 9 A Z camera button other function button etc. user selection of a soft key e.g. any selection programmable via user interface such as a touch screen or a menu option etc. upon a predetermined function being invoked e.g. upon invoking a camera accessing stored contacts accessing a calendar powering on off etc. upon a predetermined application being invoked e.g. upon invoking a media player application upon invoking a mapping or other location based application etc. upon receipt of a predetermined message type e.g. upon receipt of an SMS message an MMS etc. upon receipt of a message having predetermined content e.g. predetermined word or words in the subject line and or body predetermined sender etc. upon receipt of an NFC message e.g. containing product information location based information etc. and the like. It is appreciated that the aforementioned example event occurrences are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not limiting. Any event input function action message etc. can be defined as an event occurrence and mapped to one or more MCD applications to be synchronized.

According to various embodiments an event occurrence may be mapped to a single MCD application for automatic synchronization or to multiple MCD applications for automatic synchronization with each of the multiple MCD applications upon the occurrence of the same event occurrence. Similarly multiple event occurrences can be mapped to the same MCD application such that more than one event occurrence will cause the same MCD application to synchronize.

According to one embodiment synchronization mappings may be defined directly between an event occurrence and one or more MCD applications. This mapping may be performed by an MCD user. For example a user may provide synchronization mappings through a configuration interface on the MCD or through remote configuration interfaces such as over the Internet or via a computer system which can be subsequently synchronized to the MCD. As another example an MCD application provider and or a provider providing the automatic synchronization functionality may provide some of the synchronization mappings. For example default synchronization mappings can be provided between certain known or popular MCD applications and likely event occurrences. It is appreciated that according to some embodiments the synchronization mappings may be altered at any time by an MCD user.

According to another embodiment synchronization mappings may be defined based on an MCD application classification whereby an event occurrence is associated with one or more MCD application classifications and MCD applications to be synchronized also have a defined MCD application classification. Thus by associating event occurrences with MCD application classifications multiple MCD applications having the same MCD application classification can be automatically synchronized without requiring the MCD user to individually define the synchronization mappings for each MCD application.

Following block is block in which synchronization parameters are defined for the MCD applications to be synchronized. Synchronization parameters may generally include any synchronization configuration setting synchronization preferences identification of data and or data locations identification of parameters utilized during synchronization and the like. Synchronization parameters may be defined in a number of ways including but not limited to by an MCD user by an MCD application provider and or by a provider providing automatic synchronization functionality. Example synchronization parameters may include but are not limited to usernames passwords account identifiers synchronization frequency e.g. once per day every time 12 hours 24 hours etc. what to synchronize e.g. all data only new data personal data not private data file size limitations number of photos synchronize only to specific users block synchronization to specific users only outbound synchronization only inbound synchronization both inbound outbound synchronization no location based information etc. data locations e.g. memory location or file structure within MCD etc. automatic synchronization with or without confirmation requests e.g. requiring MCD user to confirm prior to synchronization and the like. It is appreciated that the aforementioned example synchronization parameters are provided for illustrative purposes only and are not limiting.

In one embodiment at least some of the operations performed at blocks may be performed automatically by executing programming logic from use of the MCD. For example automatic synchronization logic may be executed that identifies the MCD applications installed on the MCD such as by accessing a registry or other stored identification of MCD applications and automatically associates each or at least a subset of the identified MCD applications with one or more event occurrences. Automatic synchronization mapping may be performed based on MCD application classification and or by default synchronization mappings defined between typical event occurrences and known or popular MCD applications. In some embodiments the automatic associations may be presented to the MCD user for acceptance or alteration during or after performing the automatic synchronization mapping.

The method may begin at block in which an MCD is provided that has automatic synchronization functionality and is configured to perform as described by the method of .

At block an event occurrence is performed by the MCD. As described the event occurrence may be any user input e.g. hard key soft key etc. a predetermined function or application that is invoked receipt of a predetermined message and the like. At block the event occurrence is detected if the event occurrence is one which is associated with one or more MCD applications to be synchronized as defined by the synchronization mappings. For example a broadcast module may be configured to detect the event occurrence as described in detail with reference to .

Following block is block in which it is determined which MCD application or applications are to be synchronized. As further described with reference to a number of techniques may be utilized to identify the MCD applications to be synchronized upon the detection of a certain event occurrence. For example synchronization mappings can be accessed to determine which MCD applications are to be automatically synchronized for the event occurrence detected either directly or based on MCD application classification associations. In other embodiments the programming logic configured to detect the event occurrence such as the broadcast module may include an indication of each of the MCD applications and or the MCD application classifications to be automatically synchronized. According to yet another embodiment the broadcast modules may be more general while the listener modules may be configured to detect a broadcast trigger event or events generated in response to a specific event occurrence or occurrences for the MCD applications to which the listener modules are associated. In this embodiment a broadcast module may generate a broadcast trigger event that provides a URI which is configured to indicate the event occurrence detected e.g. camera pressed etc. and or the MCD application or applications or MCD application classifications to be synchronized.

Following block is block in which an automatic synchronization command is issued to the MCD application or applications to be automatically synchronized based on the detection of the event occurrence. For example as described with reference to a listener module or modules or other programming logic may be configured to invoke the synchronization function of the MCD application or applications to be synchronized. It is appreciated that a number of techniques may be utilized to invoke the data synchronization function for each MCD application which may depend at least in part on the type of the MCD application the configuration and or programming of the MCD application and or the configuration of the automatic synchronization logic executed by the MCD. For example in one embodiment an MCD application may have an open interface or routine e.g. a standard API etc. that can be called by the listener modules or other programming logic.

At blocks automatic synchronization of data is performed over a network between the MCD and one or more remote servers associated with the MCD applications being synchronized such as between the wireless network and the remote servers described with reference to . At block automatic synchronization parameters and or other automatic synchronization logic is analyzed to facilitate the automatic synchronization. Parameters may be associated with each of the MCD applications being synchronized such as the parameters and other data conventionally utilized during synchronization. Synchronization parameters may also include those defined during the operations described with reference to block of . Synchronization parameters may be provided according to a variety of techniques including but not limited to by a broadcast module by a listener module and or by accessing synchronization parameters stored in memory.

At decision block it is determined whether the automatic synchronization operations are to include outbound synchronization transmitting data from the MCD to the one or more remote servers. If so then blocks are performed. At block the data to be synchronized for each MCD application is retrieved from the memory of the MCD. As described the MCD application configuration and or synchronization parameters may define which data is to be synchronized and or where the data is to be stored. At block synchronization is performed to transmit the data over the wireless network to the respective remote servers. Synchronization over the wireless network or any other network may be performed according to the conventional synchronization techniques and protocol utilized for the MCD the MCD application and the wireless carrier network. For example according to one embodiment synchronization may include wireless application protocol WAP utilizing messaging files configured as wireless mark up language WML files and communicating according to Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP standards. For example data to be transmitted may be compiled into one or more WML files having a format and or content that can be determined by the intended remote server recipient. The MCD application or other programming logic can initiate a hyper text transfer protocol HTTP session e.g. via a WAP module provided by the MCD to transmit the data from the MCD to the remote server as a WAP push message. It is appreciated that any other suitable wireless synchronization techniques and protocol may be utilized such as but not limited to Microsoft Corporation s ActiveSync or Exchange ActiveSync protocol Apple Inc. s iOS Sync or Google Inc. s Android operating system synchronization protocol as desired. Moreover data need not be transmitted as WML files but can be transmitted as any other type of file such as but not limited to text files comma separated files extensible mark up XML files MMS messages emails and the like.

According to one embodiment prior to performing the synchronization operations at block or at any other point in the method the MCD may present the user with a request for confirmation prior to synchronization. This confirmation may be generated and presented locally by the MCD or in part received over the network such as from a wireless carrier or from a remote server. Express user confirmation may be desired in circumstances when data transfer is to be monitored.

If at decision block it is determined that synchronization is not to be transmitted outbound from the MCD or after performing outbound synchronization at block decision block follows. At decision block it is determined whether the automatic synchronization operations are to include inbound synchronization receiving data at the MCD from the one or more remote servers associated with the MCD applications. If so then operations continue to blocks in which inbound synchronization operations are performed by the respective MCD applications being performed and the data received is stored in the memory of the MCD respectively. Express confirmation may be requested from the MCD user prior to inbound synchronization in one embodiment similar to that described above with reference to outbound synchronization.

Following block or at decision block if automatic synchronization is not to include inbound synchronization then MCD operations are continued at block .

Accordingly the method may end after block having automatically detected an event occurrence and in response performed automatic synchronization inbound and or outbound synchronization by one or more MCD applications between the MCD and the remote servers associated with the MCD application s . Thus automatic synchronization can be performed in the background during the user s normal operation of the MCD without requiring explicit instructions from the user to synchronize or even access the MCD application.

The following table provides a list of example synchronization activities that may be performed for example MCD applications based on the detection of sample event occurrences.

It is appreciated that the aforementioned list is provided for illustrative purposes and is not limiting. Any event occurrence and MCD application combination may be defined by the synchronization mappings and any suitable data may be automatically synchronized.

Various block and or flow diagrams of systems methods apparatus and or computer program products according to example embodiments are described above. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams respectively can be implemented by computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments.

These computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions that are executed on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. As an example embodiments of the invention may provide for a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code or program instructions embodied therein said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that are executed on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide elements or steps for implementing the functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention set forth herein will be apparent having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

