---

title: Mitigating use of machine solvable HIPs
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for mitigating machine solvable human interactive proofs (HIPs). A classifier is trained over a set of one or more training HIPs that have known characteristics for OCR solvability and HIP solving pattern from actual use. A HIP classification is determined for a HIP (such as from a HIP library used by a HIP generator) using the trained classifier. If the HIP is classified by the trained classifier as a merely human solvable classification, such that it may not be solved by a machine, the HIP can be identified for use in the HIP generation system. Otherwise, the HIP can be altered to (attempt to) be merely human solvable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08885931&OS=08885931&RS=08885931
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08885931
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110126
---
Network based e.g. Internet access to documents data interactive content uploading and or downloading of content for example is typically controlled by an administrator of a network location providing the access. For example an online user may wish to post content such as a comment to a blog or news site. In this example the administrator of the site may want to limit postings to merely human users e.g. and not automated bot posters and can require the user to register or log in. Often as part of the log in or registration process a human interactive proof HIP may be used in an attempt to identify the user as a human e.g. some sort of interaction that merely humans may be able to perform and not automated software . For example a Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart CAPTCHA image can be displayed during registration and the user can be asked to input the characters found in the image.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Human interactive proofs HIPs are often used to mitigate use of automated software e.g. bots from performing actions on a website that may degrade a quality of service for the website such as by abusing the site and or using resources e.g. by clogging bandwidth . Typically HIPs are used to help protect systems vulnerable to e mail spam such as the webmail services to mitigate posting spam on message boards blogs or news sites such as for vandalism or to drive traffic to a site and or to mitigate malicious use of resources on a site.

However HIPs have been considered broken for some time as they can often fail in their goal to block machines or bots from performing certain actions while allowing humans to perform certain actions. For example character recognition e.g. optical character recognition OCR algorithms are often used by bots to solve HIPs. Alternately some malicious users utilize HIP farms comprising a plurality of humans to solve HIPs at a very small price per solved HIP. Typically those HIPs that are not machine solvable are sent to the HIP farms for solving. Moreover as machine solving technology for HIPs improves fewer Hips may have to be sent to HIP farms such that a malicious user entity can solve HIPs at an ever decreasing cost. However if the number of HIPs that have to be sent to a HIP farm e.g. necessitate a human to solve can be increased the cost to the malicious user may increase thereby mitigating the attempt by malicious users to solve HIPs.

Accordingly one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed for reducing a number of machine solvable HIPs used by a HIP generation system e.g. providing HIPs for a website . HIP challenges that may be solved by BOTs Machines can be detected through various heuristics and these HIPs can be removed from use by the HIP system. Machine solvable HIP challenges may have common characteristics and a trained classifier may use these characteristics to identify machine solvable HIPs such as in a HIP store. A feedback loop involving feedback from users HIP system logs and or machine learning system for example can be applied to further improve machine solvable HIP detection. The machine solvable HIP challenges can be removed from circulation in a HIP system and non machine solvable HIPs can be promoted to increase their circulation in the HIP system.

In one embodiment for mitigating machine solvable human interactive proofs HIPs a HIP classification is determined for a HIP using a trained classifier. In this embodiment the classifier is trained over a set of one or more training HIPs that have known characteristics such as HIP optical character recognition OCR solvability e.g. can the HIP be solved by OCR and a HIP solving pattern e.g. how the HIP is solved in use . Further the HIP can be identified for use in a HIP generation system if the HIP is classified by the trained classifier as a merely human solvable classification e.g. and not machine solvable .

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

For example OCR algorithms are typically designed to recognize alphanumeric characters as they may normally appear when written or typed in a document. The algorithms can scan the characters and attempt to match them individually for example to one or more characters in a library associated with the OCR algorithm e.g. a library of English letters . While the OCR algorithms may have difficulty in recognizing the characters comprised in the HIP humans can typically e.g. although not always recognize the characters and reproduce them when asked to enter the HIP in a log in procedure for example.

In the example embodiment the HIP comprise two words that need to be entered in order to authenticate or log in for example. Further in this example the shape and size of the characters is altered along with the alignment and rotation. Additionally some of the characters are joined without a space between. These are examples of techniques used to mitigate automated reading of the HIPs while allowing humans to recognize the respective characters for the words . However even though a many HIP designs can mitigate automated reading of the HIPs some HIPs may still be broken or solved by machines particularly as OCR algorithms improve in recognition ability.

A method may be devised that provides for limiting the effectiveness of automated HIP recognition systems. A HIP generation system such as used by a user log in protocol may store and provide a plurality of HIPs comprising various techniques for mitigating automated detection for example. Some HIPs used by such a system may not be solvable by machines while others may be broken by the automated detection systems. Those HIPs that can be broken or recognized by automated systems can be removed from use such as be removing them from a HIP selection library or they may be changed such that an automated detection system may not recognize the HIP for example.

In one embodiment variables for the training set can comprise the HIP OCR solvability and the HIP solving pattern. A HIP OCR solvability characteristic may comprise a value for example that indicates how readily the HIP can be solved by an OCR system algorithm . In one embodiment a higher score may indicate a likelihood of solvability such as a probability of solvability e.g. 100 100 solvable by OCR 0 0 solvable by OCR . Further in one embodiment a plurality of OCR systems may be used to determine the HIP OCR solvability for example and a combination of scores from the respective OCR systems can be used to determine the HIP OCR solvability e.g. median mean mode or some other statistical value of combined probability scores .

A HIP solving pattern can comprise a value assigned for one or more HIP solving characteristics for example. When solving a HIP humans and machines provide characteristic solving patterns that may be more particular to one group. For example machine solvers typically provide a solution far more quickly than human solvers of HIPs and humans typically take longer to enter respective characters of the HIP. Further mistakes made by humans when solving HIPs are typically different than those made by machines. Additionally humans can sometime change characters when solving whereas machines typically do not change characters. In one embodiment these solving characteristics can be identified and a value may be assigned to the characteristic.

Further in this embodiment the known solution can comprise a value such as a probability for example that indicates a classification of machine solvable or human solvable. In one embodiment the classifier can be trained over a set of one or more training HIPs using the known characteristics where the HIPs have been solved by humans and where the HIPs have been solved by machines. In this way for example the solution is known as solved by a human or solved by a machine. Further in one embodiment the classifier can be trained for example until it can appropriately solve the respective training set items e.g. as human and or machine solvable . Additionally in one embodiment the classifier can be further trained e.g. refined using non training set items such as from subsequent classification of HIPs.

At a HIP can be run through the trained classifier to determine a HIP classification for the HIP. For example a HIP generation system used by a log in protocol e.g. for a webpage that registers new users may utilize a library of pre generated HIPs for a registration procedure. As another example a HIP generation system may create new HIPs that can be added to an existing library and or used by a registration system upon creation. In these examples respective HIPs in the HIP library or newly generated HIPs can be run through the trained classifier to determine the HIP classification.

As described above a HIP that can be solved by a machine e.g. an OCR program running on a computer may not be desirable for use in a user registration system for example. Therefore in one embodiment those HIPs that can be solved by machines can be eliminated from use for example by removing them from the HIP library or not adding them to the HIP library if newly created. In one embodiment the trained classifier may identify those HIPs that are merely human solvable e.g. are not solved by machines .

At in the exemplary method the HIP is identified as one that can be used in a HIP generator if the HIP is classified as merely human solvable by the trained classifier. For example if the HIP is newly created and has not been used in the user registration process and it is classified as merely human solvable it may be added to the HIP generator library e.g. or used by the generator . However in this example if the HIP is not classified as merely human solvable e.g. at least a part of the HIP can be solved by a machine the HIP may be rejected for use in the HIP generator library. In this way for example the HIP generator may utilize merely those HIPs that are classified as human solvable and not machine solvable. Reducing machine solvable HIPs from a user registration process can also mitigate a potential for malicious intent for example as automated HIP solving is typically used for malicious purposes or at least undesirable purposes with respect to a website owner .

Having identified the HIP as one that can be used by the HIP generator the exemplary method ends at .

In one embodiment in order to mitigate machine solvable HIPs used by the HIP engine the HIPs from the HIP store are classified at . A HIP that has not been used by the HIP engine e.g. for an online registration such as one that has been recently added to the HIP store e.g. newly generated may be subjected to optical character recognition OCR at . In one embodiment the OCR for the HIP may comprise running the HIP through one or more OCR engines e.g. that use OCR algorithms and or libraries . For example one or more existing OCR technologies may be applied to the HIP to determine OCR solvability e.g. a score for the HIP. Further for example as newer OCR technologies are identified they may also be used to determine the OCR solvability at .

At the OCR solvability can be used to classify the HIP which can comprise an image. As described above a trained classifier can be used to classify the HIP for example using one or more variables. In one embodiment the variable input to the trained classifier for the HIP can comprise the OCR solvability determined by the OCR run on the HIP at for example at least for a HIP that has not been previously classified and or used by the HIP engine .

In one embodiment the HIP may be classified as machine solvable human solvable both human and machine solvable or neither human nor machine solvable. In one embodiment not all of the classifications may be used. For example the classifier may merely classify the HIP as either machine solvable human solvable or both human and machine solvable. As another example merely machine solvable and human solvable may be used as potential classifications.

In one embodiment if a HIP is classified as machine solvable the HIP may be entirely solvable by a machine. For example if the respective characters in the HIP e.g. including any spaces if there are multiple words can be identified by the OCR algorithm the HIP may be classified as machine solvable. In one embodiment if the HIP is classified as human solvable it can merely be solved by a human. For example the OCR may identify that none of the characters in the HIP can be identified appropriately thereby classifying the HIP as merely human solvable.

It will be appreciated that even though the HIP may be classified as human solvable e.g. meaning that it was not able to be solved by the OCR a human may also not be able to solve the HIP e.g. the characters are undecipherable in the image . In one embodiment a HIP that is classified as human solvable can be further analyzed by a human e.g. or a human analog to determine if it can actually be solved by a human.

In one embodiment if a HIP is classified as both human and machine solvable or simply as machine solvable at least a portion of the HIP may be solvable by a machine for example where at least one of the characters in an image of the HIP can be recognized by the OCR. In one embodiment the classifier may be able to determine that the HIP is neither human nor machine solvable such as where the characters in the image of the HIP are undecipherable.

In one embodiment the classification may identify a classification confidence score for the HIP. For example a classification confidence score may be identified for the respective classifications used by the classifier e.g. machine solvable human solvable both human and machine solvable and or neither human nor machine solvable . As another example when merely utilizing the OCR solvability as a classifier input a confidence score can be identified for machine solvable human solvable and both human and machine solvable classifications. In this example a confidence score may comprise an indication of confidence that the classification applies to the HIP such as a probability.

In one embodiment classifying the HIP can comprise classifying the HIP using a desired threshold for a classification confidence score for respective classifications. For example a threshold value may be used to identify which of the classifications can be applied to the HIP. In one embodiment the threshold may be adjusted based on training of the classifier empirical evidence of classified HIPs and or a desired outcome for HIP classifications. As an example a threshold may comprise a highest confidence score such as selecting the classification having a highest confidence score. As another example the threshold may comprise a desired value that the confidence score needs to meet or surpass for the HIP to be assigned to the classification associated with the score.

At in the example embodiment if the HIP is classified as not solved by a bot e.g. merely human solvable the HIP can be added to the HIP store at . If the HIP is classified as solvable by a bot at the HIP may at be removed from use by the HIP generation system for example particularly if the HIP is classified as machine solvable e.g. the entire HIP can be solved by the OCR . If the HIP is classified as machine bot solvable at the HIP can also be broken down into bot solvable parts at .

In one embodiment the HIP may comprise a both human and machine solvable HIP such as when classified as machine and human solvable. In this embodiment one or more machine solvable parts of the HIP can be identified. For example the OCR may identify characters and or groups of characters in the image of the HIP that can be solved by a bot. At the identified one or more machine solvable parts can be modified into a potentially human solvable part to generate a modified HIP. For example as described above HIPs can comprise an image of distorted characters such as where inclusions are added characters are rotated twisted and or have their alignment changed.

In one embodiment the modification may comprise applying distortions to the bot solvable portions for example such that a machine may not solve the HIP. In another embodiment characters and or words may be added to or removed from the HIP and or characters may be substituted. The modified HIP can be sent back to be classified at for example to determine if it is merely human solvable. If the modified HIP is human solvable at it can be added to the HIP store at .

At those portions of HIPs and or entire HIPs that are machine solvable can be removed from use by the HIP engine . For example the classification may identify portions of HIPs that may not be sufficiently modified such that they are not machine solvable. In this example these portions of bot solvable HIPs which cannot be modified may be removed from use.

In one embodiment HIPs that are stored in the HIP store and that are being used by the HIP engine e.g. for user registration authentication etc. can be periodically and or routinely checked for machine solvability for example. For example when HIPs provided by the HIP engine are used e.g. on a website a HIP log can be mined for data at associated with the use of the HIP. For example when a HIP is provided for use a log of information associated with the HIP s use can be maintained.

In one embodiment such data mined from the HIP log can comprise mistakes that are made when using a HIP e.g. entering the HIP in a dialog box a time duration for entering the HIP and or a time duration for entering respective characters in the HIP e.g. how long it takes to enter the characters comprised in the HIP image and or characteristics of how the respective characters are entered for the HIP e.g. in order deleting and replacing etc . For example as described above these data can comprise characteristics that may facilitate in classification of the HIP as human and or machine solvable.

In one embodiment HIP solving pattern data can be collected from a HIP use log. For example the HIP solving pattern collected data can be used as input for variables to the trained classifier when classifying the HIP image at . As another example the HIP solving pattern collected data can be provided for the HIP classification along with the OCR solvability data to classify a HIP that has previously been used by the HIP generation engine e.g. and therefore has a HIP log to mine data from .

In one embodiment characteristics that are used for training the classifier and or input for a HIP classification can comprise an Internet based address reputation for a location of where the HIP was solved at . In one embodiment the Internet based address for the HIP can be collected from the HIP use log such as from the HIP log data mining e.g. . For example an IP address for where the HIP was solved can be identified from the log. In one embodiment the identified IP address can be compared against a database of known IP addresses to determine whether it comprises a known bad actor location.

For example some geographic locations Internet Service Providers ISPs servers and or IP addresses may be documented to comprise malicious users that utilize bots to solve HIPs. In this embodiment for example these IP addresses can be used as input to train the classifier and or as input for classification of the HIP to determine whether the HIP is machine solvable. For example if the HIP was solved at an IP address that is known to use bots to solve HIPs this may help determine that the HIP is machine solvable e.g. as it was solved at a known bot IP address .

At as described above the previously used HIPs are classified. If they are classified as merely human solvable at they can be added back into the HIP store at . However if they are classified as machine solvable or both human and machine solvable at they can be either removed from the HIP store at or broken into their respective bot solvable parts at . Further as described above the bot solvable parts can either be removed from use by the HIP engine at or modified to potentially be merely human solvable at . The modified HIPs can then be reclassified at .

In one embodiment using the example embodiment the HIP engine can be improved to provide merely human solvable HIPs. For example newly created HIPs that have not been used can be checked to determine whether they are merely human solvable. Further data can be mined from HIP use logs to help train the classifier and or classify HIPs. The previously used HIPs can be checked to determine whether they are merely human solvable utilizing the mined data. Further as OCR technology and other HIP solving technology improves for example the improved technology can be used to help remove the machine solvable HIPs from use by the HIP engine.

A system may be devised that can mitigate machine solvable human interactive proofs HIPs from use by a HIP generation system. A HIP generation system can be used by a website such as during user registration authentication to determine that a human is interacting with the website e.g. and not an automated bot . Automated bots can use optical character recognition OCR technology to solve some HIPs while other HIPs may not be able to be solved by OCR for example. Those HIPs that can be solved by automated systems can be removed from use by the HIP generation system or they may be changed such that an automated detection system may not recognize the HIP for example.

A HIP solving pattern component is operably coupled with the processor . The HIP solving pattern component identifies one or more HIP solving patterns for the HIP . For example a HIP solving pattern can be identified from HIP use data that may be collected from a HIP log. In one embodiment the HIP log comprises information about how the HIP was used solved applied etc. such as mistakes made when entering the HIP in the website time duration to enter the characters and or the entire HIP and or how the HIP was entered. As an example this data can help distinguish between a machine solved HIP and a human solved HIP as machines and humans typically solve and or attempt to solve HIPs differently e.g. machines typically solve HIPs faster than humans .

A HIP classification component is operably coupled with the OCR component and the HIP solving pattern component . The HIP classification component determines a HIP classification for the HIP using the OCR solvability provided by the OCR component and one or more HIP solving patterns provided by the HIP solving pattern component for the HIP . The HIP classification can comprise an indication of a machine solvable HIP and or a human solvable HIP. For example the HIP classification component can receive a solving pattern for a HIP e.g. time of entry mistakes made how entered and an OCR solvability probability as input and identify a classification for the HIP e.g. human solvable and or machine solvable as an output.

A HIP modification component can modify a HIP which is at least partially machine solvable into a merely human solvable HIP. For example if the HIP classification for the HIP comprises both human and machine solvable the classified HIP can be modified. The HIP modification component may comprise a HIP portion identification component that can identify one or more portions of the at least partially machine solvable HIP that are machine solvable. Further the HIP modification component may comprise a HIP image modifier component that can alter the at least partially machine solvable portion of the HIP to a potentially merely human solvable portion of the HIP.

As an example the HIP modification component identifies one or more portions of the HIP that are machine solvable e.g. one or more characters in the image of the HIP . In this example those portions of the HIP that are identified to be machine solvable can be altered by the HIP image modifier component to be merely human solvable e.g. or may be rejected if not able to be appropriately altered . Further for example the resulting HIP can comprise a modified HIP which may be reclassified to determine if it is merely human solvable e.g. and therefore added to the HIP store .

A HIP log data collection component can identify HIP use data associated with the HIP from a HIP log. HIP use data can comprise mistakes that are made when the HIP is entered such as into a website dialog box e.g. if the HIP was not entered correctly and or what parts were mistaken . The HIP use data can further comprise time duration for entering the HIP and or time duration for entering respective characters in the HIP such as how long it takes for each character of the HIP to be entered and or for the entire HIP to be entered. The HIP use data can additionally comprise characteristics of how the respective characters are entered for the HIP such as if they are entered in order back tracking deleting and re entering etc. The HIP use data can also comprise an Internet based address reputation for a location of where the HIP was solved such as whether the IP address of the solving location is associated with a known HIP solving bot.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

