---

title: Alert message portal to securely notify subscribers of events
abstract: The present invention provides a method of operating a communication portal. One embodiment of the method includes accessing, at the communication portal, an alert message addressed to a group registered to receive an alert service. The method also includes generating user identifiers corresponding to users that are registered to the group. The user identifiers are assigned to the users for use within the communication portal. The method further includes transmitting the alert message from the communication portal to the users indicated by the user identifiers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602309&OS=09602309&RS=09602309
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 09602309
owner_city: Boulogne-Billancourt
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20110131
---
This invention relates generally to communication systems and more particularly to providing alerts in communication systems.

A ubiquitous Internet pervasive wireless coverage and the inexorable decline in the cost and increase in the capabilities of communication devices has led to an explosion in the volume of messages exchanged between people and organizations. Although this has generally been a boon to society there are a number of well known drawbacks to completely free and open communication. One is the sheer volume of messages that an individual may send and receive in the course of the day. Another is the number of unsolicited and usually unwanted messages that can be received e.g. as spam from legitimate and illegitimate sources.

One example of a valuable service is an alert service. Users can subscribe or register to alert services so that they receive alerts on their cell phones smart phones laptops home computers and the like. The alerts can be used to notify the users of weather conditions traffic conditions scheduling changes or practically any other event. However users may not appreciate receiving a large number of alerts particularly if they are associated with events that do not concern or interest the user. The number of alerts may also be multiplied if copies are sent to different addresses identifiers or numbers associated with the same user such as e mail addresses instant messaging handles and phone numbers. Users may also be reluctant to provide contact information to third party service providers out of fear that this information will be used to target the user for spam or sold to other providers.

Third party service providers may also have difficulty directing alerts to the appropriate subscribers. For example parents of the students at a particular high school may want to receive alerts associated with high school events. However not all parents may want to receive all of the alerts for all of the events at the high school. Parents of athletes may want to be informed of scheduling changes related to their children s teams but may not want to receive alerts associated with other teams or other extracurricular activities. However parents of all the students may want to be informed of school closures. Third party service providers may also want to provide assurances that the subscribers to their services will not become the targets of unwanted spam.

The disclosed subject matter is directed to addressing the effects of one or more of the problems set forth above. The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosed subject matter in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed subject matter. This summary is not an exhaustive overview of the disclosed subject matter. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the disclosed subject matter or to delineate the scope of the disclosed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is discussed later.

In one embodiment a method is provided for operating a communication portal. One embodiment of the method includes accessing at the communication portal an alert message addressed to a group registered to receive an alert service. The method also includes generating user identifiers corresponding to users that are registered to the group. The user identifiers are assigned to the users for use within the communication portal. The method further includes transmitting the alert message from the communication portal to the users indicated by the user identifiers.

In another embodiment a method is provided for operating a communication device. One embodiment of this method includes receiving at the communication device and from a communication portal an alert message provided by an alert service. The communication device is a registered member of a group that receives an alert service and the communication device is identified to the group by a username. The communication portal has assigned a user identifier to a user of the communication device for use within the communication portal and the communication portal transmits the alert message to the communication device based on the user identifier.

In yet another embodiment a method is provided for operating a first communication device. One embodiment of the method includes providing an alert message from the first communication device and to a communication portal. The alert message is directed to users that are members of a group that receives an alert service and the users are identified to the group by a username. The communication portal has assigned a user identifier to a user of a second communication device for use within the communication portal so that the user identifier is not visible outside the communication portal. The communication portal transmits the alert message to the second communication device based on the user identifier.

While the disclosed subject matter is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are herein described in detail. It should be understood however that the description herein of specific embodiments is not intended to limit the disclosed subject matter to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

Illustrative embodiments are described below. In the interest of clarity not all features of an actual implementation are described in this specification. It will of course be appreciated that in the development of any such actual embodiment numerous implementation specific decisions should be made to achieve the developers specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which will vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

The disclosed subject matter will now be described with reference to the attached figures. Various structures systems and devices are schematically depicted in the drawings for purposes of explanation only and so as to not obscure the present invention with details that are well known to those skilled in the art. Nevertheless the attached drawings are included to describe and explain illustrative examples of the disclosed subject matter. The words and phrases used herein should be understood and interpreted to have a meaning consistent with the understanding of those words and phrases by those skilled in the relevant art. No special definition of a term or phrase i.e. a definition that is different from the ordinary and customary meaning as understood by those skilled in the art is intended to be implied by consistent usage of the term or phrase herein. To the extent that a term or phrase is intended to have a special meaning i.e. a meaning other than that understood by skilled artisans such a special definition will be expressly set forth in the specification in a definitional manner that directly and unequivocally provides the special definition for the term or phrase.

Generally the present application describes embodiments of techniques for implementing and operating a communication portal that is used to support alert services that provide alert messages to subscribers and or registered users. The communication portal can therefore be referred to as an alerting portal an alert services portal a smart alerting portal or other term. The portal can receive access parse and process alert messages and service requests that are received from alert service providers. For example alert messages may be addressed to a group of users that are registered to receive the alert service. From the perspective of the service provider the groups are identified by service and or group identifiers and the users are identified by usernames which may be selected by the users. However the usernames and or group names are not addresses and do not include sufficient information to send messages to the users. The portal may therefore assign an internal user identifier to users that can be used to access user addresses thereby shielding and or concealing the user s identity address from the service provider so that the service provider cannot bypass the portal and transmit messages such as spam directly to the users using information such as the user name that is visible to the service provider. When the communication portal receives an alert message addressed to a group and or username the portal may generate user identifiers corresponding to the user names that are associated with the group that is receiving the alert message. The alert message can then be transmitted from the communication portal to users indicated by the user identifiers.

In some embodiments the communication portal may use a user profile database to store user preference information for each user. Third party service providers can therefore send manually generated or machine generated alerts to subscribers registered to receive the alerts based on the subscribers alerting preferences. This may simplify the alerting process from the perspective of the third party because the alert service provider does not have to know details about the subscriber or details about the user s preferred alerting methods e.g. short message service SMS alerting multimedia instant messaging MMIM audio alerts e mail messages and the like. Subscribers can also use the communication portal to configure the alerting services and the method of receiving an alert and or the type of device that is used to receive the alert e.g. each user may specify whether the alert should be received on a cell phone a plain old telephone service POTS phone a session initiation protocol SIP phone on multiple phones at an e mail address and the like.

A communications portal is implemented in the communication system to support alert messaging services. In the illustrated embodiment users can access the communications portal using any of a variety of communication devices including but not limited to mobile phones smart phones laptops desktop computers tablet devices and the like. Users can register with the communications portal to provide alert messaging services receive alert messages for subscribed services or any combination thereof. For example users of the desktop computers and the laptop computer may register with the communications portal to provide alert messaging services. For another example users of the cell phone the smart phone the laptop computer and the desktop computer may register to receive alert messages provided by one or more of the alert messaging services. For yet another example the user of the desktop computer may also register to provide one or more alert services so that the user is both a provider and a receiver of alert services. A single user can register multiple communication devices with the communications portal e.g. the smart phone and the desktop computer may be owned and registered by the same user as indicated by the dashed oval .

Subscribers may register with the alert services portal to utilize the alert service functionality of the portal . Registered subscribers may establish and potentially modify a username and password that can be used to authenticate the subscriber for subsequent access to the alert services portal . In this way each subscriber may only need to know only one username password combination to manage their alerting service s as well as to manage their subscriptions and user preferences. The alert services portal portal may then assign each subscriber a unique user identifier UserID that is only known to the alert services portal . The user identifiers are not communicated or visible outside of the alert services portal . For example user identifiers may not be communicated to the subscribers so the subscribers may not be aware of their own user identifier or the user identifiers of any other subscriber. In one embodiment only the username provided by the subscribers is used to identify the subscribers to each other. The username can be selected so that the user s identity addresses handles and the like cannot be derived or discovered on the basis of the username. Consequently unwanted or unauthorized messages cannot be conveyed to the subscribers by entities that are only aware of the username. For example the subscriber cannot bypass the alert service portal to send spam messages to the subscriber . The alert service portal may therefore serve as a filter or gatekeeper for alert messages transmitted between the subscribers .

Each subscriber may be a sender senders create services and generate alerts a receiver receivers receive alerts or both. In one embodiment a subscriber that successfully registers with the alert services portal may be either a sender or a receiver. Alternatively the alert services portal may support different classes or tiers of registration. For example different types of subscriptions which may have different associated fees may permit a subscriber to be a sender a receiver or both. Senders may be asked to enter a unique Service Name for each alerting service that they create. Upon successful registration of the requested service the alert services portal may create and assign a unique ServiceID to the service. The ServiceID may be made known to the sender who may also be referred to as the Service Creator defined as the Administrator for that Service . The Administrator can then create any number of sub groups for the service which may be assigned unique GroupIDs based on the ServiceID e.g. a ServiceID of 1234 may have sub groups with IDs 1234 23 01 1234 23 02 1234 45 01 01 etc. In one embodiment no limit maybe set on the nesting of either sub groups or the number of sub groups for each service.

Services and groups may be public or private. Public services may be listed by the alert services portal e.g. they may be visible to users that log into a webpage supported by the alert services portal or otherwise access information provided by the alert services portal . Subscribers may therefore subscribe to any number of available Services Groups from the list of public Services Groups listed on or by the alert service portal . Private services may be offered or advertised to select users e.g. by sending the select users e mail that include links to the private service. Senders may specify whether the offered service is public or private. Subscribers that are registered as receivers may request that the alerts be sent to an address or addresses of various communication devices e.g. phone number a SIP URI an e mail address and the like. In one embodiment the capability of each communication device can be specified. For example a particular registered communication device may be identified as an audio only device such as a cell phone a text message device such as a cell phone or smartphone and or a multimedia device such as a smart phone laptop or desktop. Subscribers may also specify time of day and or location preferences for alerts.

In the illustrated embodiment the alert service portal includes a service database that is used to store information for initiating implementing maintaining and or operating alert services. The information for each service may be stored in a record or profile that can be indexed by the service name or service identifier. Each profile includes information identifying the service creator subscriber in this case and in some cases the users that have subscribed to the service at least subscriber in this case . For example a profile may include usernames when the sender has configured the service to provide alert messages to individual users. The profile may also include information identifying and or defining various subgroups associated with each service or group. This information may also include usernames for the users that have subscribed to each group or subgroup of the service. As discussed herein users may be identified in the profile only on the basis of their usernames.

Referring back to the alert service portal also includes a user profile database that is used to store information that can be used to address the alerts to communication devices associated with the user configure the alerts in an appropriate format and the like. Each user profile may be stored in a record or profile that can be accessed to determine the alert service preferences for each user. Each profile may therefore include the username of the subscriber such as the subscriber the user identifier that has been defined by the alert service portal services groups that the user has subscribed to user preferences for receiving alert messages and the like.

A list of preferences e.g. Preference Preference Preference etc. for receiving the alert messages is also included in the user profile . In one or more embodiments the preferences may be applied to particular service groups or they may be applied to multiple services groups under various conditions. Exemplary preferences that may be included in the user profile include but are not limited to the address or addresses at which to be alerted e.g. phone number SIP URI e mail the capability of each device e.g. audio only text message multi media time of day preferences location preferences and sender preferences. For example a user may specify that they want to receive audio only alerts during business hours at a phone number associated with their office phone. For another example a user may specify that they want to receive a text message on their smart phone when the location information associated with the smart phone indicates that the user is outside of their home or office. For yet another example a user may disable all alert messaging to any of their phones between the hours of 10 PM and 5 AM and the user may request that alert messages be sent to an e mail address as a multimedia message during this time interval. The preferences may also indicate preferences for alert messages associated with different senders. For example a child of an older parent who resides in an assisted living facility may request that alert messages sent by the assisted living facility always be sent to a particular phone number at any time of day or night.

Referring back to the alert services portal also stores mapping information that indicates the users that have registered to receive each of the services. In one embodiment the mapping information includes service to user maps for each of the services that are offered by registered senders. For example a map may include an identifier of each service group or subgroup that indicates a list of the user identifiers and or usernames for the users that are registered to receive alert messages that are sent to the corresponding service group or subgroup by the sender. The user identifiers may then be used as indexes in to the user records stored in the database .

Referring back to in one embodiment the alert services portal may implement one or more of the databases as Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP databases. For example the user profile database may be implemented as a LDAP Subscriber Database that contains both security credentials e.g. username password as well as user data ServiceIDs GroupIDs alerting preferences and a list of subscribed to services groups. The alert services portal may therefore support a data query interface with one or more of the databases that operates according to LDAP which is an application protocol for reading and editing directories over an IP network. A directory is defined as an organized set of records such as the subscriber user profiles stored in the database For example the database may include a directory that includes an alphabetical list of persons and organizations and their associated address email address phone number and or other identifier. A directory of hierarchical information can be represented a tree of directory entries. An entry consists of a set of attributes. An attribute has a name an attribute type or attribute description and one or more values. Each entry has a unique identifier. A client in this case one of the subscribers may start an LDAP session by connecting to an LDAP server not shown in . The client then sends an operation request to the server and the server sends responses in return. Exemplary operations that can be performed by the client include starting a secure connection authenticating and specifying an LDAP protocol version searching for and or retrieving directory entries testing whether a named entry contains a given attribute value adding a new entry deleting an entry modifying an entry moving or renaming an entry aborting a previous request and closing the connection. Authorized personnel can therefore configure and or modify the databases by sending requests to the alert services portal to perform the requested modification.

Although the databases are depicted as integral parts of the portal in persons of ordinary skill in the art having benefit of the present disclosure should appreciate that in alternative embodiments one or more of the databases may be implemented outside of the portal . For example third party servers such as cloud servers may be used to store the information in the databases . However in embodiments that implement the databases outside of the portal entities other than the portal should not be able to access the information in the databases without permission from the portal e.g. to gather user identifiers that could be used to transmit spam to the associated users. Various authentication schemes may therefore be used to support secure communication between the portal and off site databases.

The alert services portal also includes a controller that includes one or more processing elements and or memory elements that can be used to implement alert service messaging functionality. In one embodiment the controller and the alert services portal support both manually generated and machine generated alerts. To send a manual alert subscriber logs into the alert services portal by sending a request with authentication information such as username and password to the controller . The controller can then verify or authenticate the subscriber using information stored in the profiles . Once the subscriber has been authenticated the controller may permit access to an interface such as a webpage so that the subscriber can navigate to the page to manually generate an alert. The subscriber may then select one or more Service Groups from their list of services groups enter a text message to send add one or more attachments and then confirm the contents of the alert message. In one embodiment when sending a manual alert subscriber may also choose to retrieve a list of usernames of users registered to receive alerts for a given ServiceID GroupID. This functionality may be useful for providing personal alerting services e.g. the sender can choose who to include from a group of friends registered to receive alerts. As discussed herein the subscriber only knows the username of the user and not the user identifier assigned by the alert service portal . If the alert is a machine generated alert e.g. an alert message sent by a Traffic Alerting service the alert may be automatically sent to the alert service portal via a RESTful API that includes the ServiceID GroupID of the service the username and password associated with the ServiceID a text message and any optional attachments. Since third party service providers such as the subscriber only know the ServiceID GroupID and do not know the user identifiers assigned by the alert service portal third party service providers are not able to bypass the alert service portal and send users spam. Users therefore only receive alerts they have subscribed to and they can disable alert services at any time.

To process an alert the controller may use the service group identifier in the alert message request to access the corresponding service profile in the database . The controller may then retrieve the list of usernames for the service group and use information in the user profiles to generate the user identifiers associated with each of the usernames in the list. For example the controller may access the service to user map associated with the service group identifier and then use pointers in the map to select the appropriate user profiles . The controller can also look up the user preferences listed in the user profiles and then send the alert message to the users based on the preferences capabilities specified for a given device. For example multi media messages may be stripped of any attachments for text only devices text messages may be converted to audio via text to speech conversion for audio only devices audio messages may be converted to text via speech recognition and the like. In the illustrated embodiment the alert service portal includes formatter converter functionality that can be used to implement the formatting and or conversions specified by the user preferences. Alternatively the formatting and or conversion functionality may be implemented using third party software that may or may not be integrated within the alert service portal . The controller may also act as a gatekeeper and decline to send messages if time of day restrictions or other restrictions or limitations apply for one or more of the users. In one embodiment the declined messages may be queued for later transmission when the time of day or other restrictions do not apply. In one embodiment e mail alerts may be sent via standard e mail and other alerts may be sent via IMS. For example when the controller processes an alert it may generate a SIP INVITE for the specific destination address and alerting method. The SIP messages may then be processed by an IMS Core Network not shown in .

Naperville North parents students faculty administrators and other interested parties may then be informed that the alert message service is available. For example e mails may be sent to an appropriate Naperville North distribution list and the e mails may include a link to the alert message service portal. People who receive e mails may register as receivers of the alert message service and the receivers may specify the device addresses and or e mail addresses at which they wish to receive alerts. The receivers may also specify the capabilities of each device e.g. audio only text multi media and any time of day location and or user restrictions for the alert messages. Receivers may also register to receive alerts by selecting the Service s Group s they are interested in from the list of publically advertised Services Groups. For example a parent of one girl on the Naperville North High School Varsity Girl s Softball team and another girl on the Naperville North High School Freshman Girl s Softball team may register to receive alerts associated with Girls Softball the Varsity team and the Frosh team. In the illustrated embodiment the parent registers addresses phone numbers associated with a smart phone and a laptop computer . The parent may specify that alert messages should be delivered to the smart phone as audio or multimedia messages between the hours of 6 AM and 10 PM as indicated by the dashed lines . The parent may also specify that alert messages should be delivered as e mails to the laptop computer between the hours of 10 PM and 6 AM as indicated by the solid lines . The preferences can be modified by logging into the portal with the parents user name and password.

The administrator or other authorized sender can then log into the alert services portal using their username and password when they wish to send an alert message. For example the administrator may need to manually send a message informing subscribers to the NapervilleNorth GirlsSofball Varsity group that the home Varsity game to be played that afternoon has been moved will be played at Wheaton North instead. The administrator can create the message by navigating to a Generate Alert page on the website provided by the portal. The administrator can select NapervilleNorth GirlsSoftball Varsity from a drop down menu of services groups owned by the administrator type a message into the text box and upload a map to the Wheaton field. A SEND button can then be used to send the alert message perhaps after confirming that the contents of the message are correct. The portal can then send the alert message to registered subscribers based on their alerting preferences. For example the portal may be able to provide the alert message in formats including but not limited to a text message only with no attachment an audio message via text to speech conversion a multi media message with attachment or an e mail. The registered parents may then receive a text message on their cell phone that the game is to be played at Wheaton North as well as an e mail message with an attached map to Wheaton North.

People may see advertisements for this service on the internet on billboards along the highways and in other media and consequently they may surf to a website maintained by the alert services portal to subscribe to the traffic alerting service. Each person may register as a receiver and specify their alerting preferences. They may then subscribe to the particular traffic group groups of interest to them. Their selections and or preferences can be updated and or modified at any time. In the illustrated embodiment a user in Illinois has a smart phone and a laptop computer . This user often commutes on the highways I 88 and I 355 and so this user registers for the traffic alert messages associated with the subgroups . The user usually checks e mail on their laptop at home before leaving for work and so the user sets a preference to indicate that they would like to receive traffic alert messages on the laptop between the hours of midnight and 8 AM. The user also typically checks for phone messages text messages and or e mail on their smart phone before leaving work at the end of the day and so the user may set a preference to receive traffic alert messages on the smart phone between noon and 5 PM.

In the illustrated embodiment traffic conditions are monitored by a service provider which can generate traffic alerts and send them to the portal e.g. via a RESTful API. The service provider may specify the Service Group that should receive the alert. The alert message portal may then authenticate the request and look up the user identifiers of the users registered to receive alerts for the Service Group. The portal may then process the alert based on each subscriber s alerting preferences generate the alert and send the alert to the subscribers in the appropriate formats. For example the portal may send an audio alert to the smart phone to notify the user of a multi car collision involving a truck carrying hazardous waste on I 88 at 7 AM in the morning. The user can retrieve the alert message and make alternate travel plans before leaving.

Embodiments of the alert message portal described herein may provide a number of advantages over conventional messaging systems. For example third parties can easily create alerting services to send valuable and or timely information such as traffic updates emergency broadcasts meeting changes game changes or even social events. The portal can then customize the alert message according to how the receiver wants to receive the information audio alert text alert email etc. and specific device addresses . Since the alert message portal handles the formatting and or conversion third parties do not have to keep track of all the user data and do not have to know the details of IMS. Likewise users can control what alerts they receive and how and when they receive them via a single username and password. For example if the users phone number or e mail changes they can log into the portal to update their information instead of having to notify numerous keepers of e mail phone lists. Furthermore the alert service portal provides additional security to both senders and receivers e.g. by acting as a gatekeeper or filter to prevent spam or other unauthorized or unwanted communication. The alert service portal also simplifies the process of creating an alerting service and sending an alert. The portal gives the user the ability to control their alerting destination and preferences via a single identifier maintained on the portal instead of having the data kept by the sender. This design allows the user to choose what services groups they want to subscribe to and prevents services from sharing lists with other service providers since the service is not aware of the user s user identifier or alerting information

Portions of the disclosed subject matter and corresponding detailed description are presented in terms of software or algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the ones by which those of ordinary skill in the art effectively convey the substance of their work to others of ordinary skill in the art. An algorithm as the term is used here and as it is used generally is conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of optical electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise or as is apparent from the discussion terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Note also that the software implemented aspects of the disclosed subject matter are typically encoded on some form of program storage medium or implemented over some type of transmission medium. The program storage medium may be magnetic e.g. a floppy disk or a hard drive or optical e.g. a compact disk read only memory or CD ROM and may be read only or random access. Similarly the transmission medium may be twisted wire pairs coaxial cable optical fiber or some other suitable transmission medium known to the art. The disclosed subject matter is not limited by these aspects of any given implementation.

The particular embodiments disclosed above are illustrative only as the disclosed subject matter may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein. Furthermore no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown other than as described in the claims below. It is therefore evident that the particular embodiments disclosed above may be altered or modified and all such variations are considered within the scope of the disclosed subject matter. Accordingly the protection sought herein is as set forth in the claims below.

