---

title: Determination and presentation of package pricing offers in response to customer interest in a product
abstract: A system and method for determination and presentation of package offers. A package offer is an offer for sale by a retailer of a package of products at a package price. A retailer may offer products for sale in an on-line retail environment or in a physical retail environment. A determination is made that a primary product is of interest to a customer. This determination may involve detecting and interpreting input signals transmitted from a customer device. In response to detecting that the primary product is of interest to the customer, a package is determined that may comprise the primary product and at least one secondary product. A package may be determined by accessing a database to locate a pre-determined package or to select the secondary products ad hoc. A package price is determined that is less than the sum of the corresponding retail prices of the primary product and secondary products in the package. A package price may be based on a profit margin of the primary product and/or a profit margin of at least one of the secondary products. A package offer for the sale of the package at the package price is then presented to the customer. The customer may indicate an acceptance of the package offer and authorize a financial account to be charged for the amount of the package price. The package products may be shipped to the customer or may be picked up at a retail establishment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08712860&OS=08712860&RS=08712860
owner: Inventor Holdings, LLC
number: 08712860
owner_city: Stamford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110211
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 360 422 filed Jul. 23 1999 entitled DETERMINATION AND PRESENTATION OF PACKAGE PRICING OFFERS IN RESPONSE TO CUSTOMER INTEREST IN A PRODUCT and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 899 710 on Mar. 1 2011 and which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 085 424 filed May 27 1998 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 138 105 on Oct. 24 2000 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DYNAMIC ASSEMBLY OF PACKAGES IN RETAIL ENVIRONMENTS . The entirety of each of the above applications is incorporated by reference herein for all purposes

The present invention relates to retail pricing of products presented to customers as a package. More particularly the present invention relates to the determination and presentation of retail package pricing offers.

Retailers often attempt to increase their overall revenues by encouraging customers to spend more money per visit to a retail establishment. One method retailers have utilized to encourage customers to spend more money during a visit to a retail establishment is to offer a discount for the purchase of multiple units of a single product. Such a discount scheme is typically enticing to customers when offered in connection with non perishable goods that require replacement over time e.g. canned goods . However customers tend not to be persuaded to purchase multiple units of consumer products such as clothing or electronics. Other methods for encouraging customers to spend more money during a visit to a retail establishment have been attempted with varying degrees of success.

In general customers are more likely to increase expenditures at a retail establishment if they perceive that they are receiving personal attention and or a discount not available to other customers. As an example small privately owned shops boutiques are often successful in encouraging customers to spend more money per visit by providing personal sales assistants to assist their customers. Personal sales assistants are especially effective if they have the authority to offer personalized package pricing discounts to the customers. For example a sales assistant in an exclusive men s store when helping a customer who is considering the purchase of a suit may suggest a shirt and tie to go with the suit. The salesman may offer to sell the shirt and tie for only 50 above the price of the suit wherein the retail prices of the shirt and tie are 45 and 25 respectively if the customer agrees to purchase the suit. In this example the customer is more likely to buy the suit as well as the shirt and the tie. The retailer benefits by completing a transaction and by increasing the purchase total of that transaction. The retailer may be particularly willing to offer a substantial discount on the shirt and tie if a large profit margin is to be realized on the suit.

Larger retailers and retail chains however have been unable to take advantage of such a personalized package pricing method. Personalized package pricing in a sizable retail environment would inappropriately place negotiating and price structure power in the hands of a large number of store sales personnel. In order to effectively utilize the above described personalized price packaging method store sales personnel would require intimate knowledge of the cost of each item and would require the ability to quickly and correctly determine an attractive yet still profitable price package to offer a customer. Placing such negotiating and price structure power in the hands of too many store sales personnel is particularly undesirable due to the potential for fraud and potential loss of profits. Specifically sales personnel may be apt to sell products at substantial discounts to their friends and family.

On line retailers suffer from the same inability to offer personalized package pricing discounts and are thus unable to encourage customers to purchase items which are of interest to the customers while simultaneously increasing the customers purchase totals. In fact on line retailers suffer from an acute lack of ability to offer personalized sales assistance to their customers in general.

Accordingly there remains a need for a system and method to enable retailers particularly on line retailers to provide personalized sales assistance for encouraging customers to complete purchases that they are considering and to increase their purchase total.

The present invention satisfies the above described needs by providing a system and method for the determination and presentation of package offers in response to an indication of a customer s interest in a primary product. A retailer may offer products for sale in an on line retail environment such as via a web site or in a physical retail environment. In response to an indication of interest in a primary product by a customer a package offer is presented to the customer. A package offer is an offer for sale by a retailer of a package of products at a package price. The package of products typically comprises the primary product and at least one secondary product. The primary product and the at least one secondary product each have a corresponding retail price. A package price is determined for the package which is typically less than the sum of the corresponding retail prices of the primary product and the at least one secondary product. In one embodiment of the present invention the determination of the package price and the at least one secondary product included in the package is based on the profit margin of at least one of the primary product and the at least one secondary product.

The package offer is then presented to the customer. If the customer provides a customer response indicating a rejection of the package offer another package to be offered to the customer may be determined. This other package may comprise i the primary product and at least one secondary product that is different from at least one of the previously included at least one secondary products or ii the primary product and the same at least one secondary product at a package price that is lower than the previously presented package price. If the customer response indicates a payment identifier and or an acceptance of the package offer a financial account identified by the payment identifier may be charged for the amount of the package price. Upon completion of the transaction with the customer transaction data relating to sale of the package may be stored in a database.

Package products of an accepted package offer may be shipped to the customer automatically or upon request by the customer. Alternately the customer may be provided with a code identifying the package offer and product identifiers for the package products. The customer may visit a retail establishment to pick up the package products and may provide the code to the retailer for input into a point of sale terminal. The point of sale terminal may be in communication with a central server which may in turn be in communication with a database storing the code and the product identifiers for the package products. Thus the point of sale terminal may be operable to communicate with the central server in order to determine the package price to be charged to the customer or to verify that the package price has already been charged to the financial account of the customer. If necessary the point of sale terminal may communicate with a financial institution to charge the package price to the financial account of the customer.

The present invention may be practiced in a multi retailer embodiment. For example the primary product may be sold by a first retailer and a secondary product may be sold by a second retailer. Upon completion of the transaction with the customer appropriate portions of the charged package price may be distributed to the first retailer and the second retailer. A central server may be operable to handle the transaction on behalf of the multiple retailers and to distribute the appropriate funds.

The present invention provides a system and method to enable retailers particularly on line retailers to determine that a product is of interest to a customer and to determine a package of products to be offered to the customer at a package price. In response to detecting an expression of interest by a customer in a particular product referred to herein as a primary product a package is determined. Determining a package may comprise i retrieving a predetermined package of products associated with the product of interest to the customer from a database or ii assembling a package based on predetermined considerations. A package may be assembled using various considerations. Applicant s co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 085 424 filed May 27 1998 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DYNAMIC ASSEMBLY OF PACKAGES IN RETAIL ENVIRONMENTS discloses a method and system for assembling packages of products based on revenue management theories available inventory and complementary families of products. For example a package of product may be assembled based on product information such as sales performance data such as inventory availability and demand rate. The products included in a package may be selected such that each product is selected from a different department of the retailer e.g. one product is from the deli department and another product is from the house wares department . Furthermore customer may be rewarded for accepting packages that include products from a variety of department or from complementary departments by being offered package prices that are more discounted than package prices for packages that do not include products from complementary or a variety of departments.

The package may comprise for example the primary product and at least one secondary product. A package price is then determined for the package. The package price may be less than the sum of the retail prices of each of the package products i.e. the primary product and the at least one secondary product . The customer is presented with a package pricing offer for brevity referred to herein as a package offer which is an offer for the sale of the package of products at the package price.

Detecting that a primary product is of interest to the customer may involve detecting that information relating to the primary product is displayed on a web page viewed by the customer for a pre determined amount of time detecting an input signal generated by the customer in response to information displayed on a web page relating to the primary product detecting that the customer has added the primary product to a virtual shopping cart or detecting a keyword input by the customer into an input field on a web page and determining that the keyword relates to the primary product. Other signals transmitted from a customer device may also be interpreted as an expression of interest by the customer in the primary product. Also the customer may explicitly indicate an interest in the primary product by requesting to be presented with a package offer associated with the primary product.

As disclosed above a package may be determined in a variety of ways. For example a package may be determined by accessing a database to locate a pre determined package associated with the primary product identifier. Determining a package may also involve accessing a database to select secondary products from a plurality of available secondary products. The selected secondary products may have a pre determined relationship with the primary product such as a similar color utility or the like. For example products that are complementary to one another may be selected for inclusion in a package e.g. cream cheese and bagels or hot dogs and buns . The secondary product may also be selected based the profit margin of the primary product and or the profit margin of the secondary product. The database may also store information relating to at least one additional product of interest to the customer. Accordingly determining a package may involve accessing the database to determine the at least one additional product of interest to the customer and selecting the additional product of interest to the customer as a secondary product for the package. Similarly the database may store information relating to a previous transaction of the customer which includes a previously sold product. Determining the package to be offered to the customer may involve accessing the database to determine a previously sold product and selecting a secondary product that has a pre determined relationship with the previously sold product.

The package price may also be determined in a variety of ways. For example determining the package price may involve determining a discounted price for each of the secondary products in the package and summing the retail price of the primary product and the discounted prices for the secondary products. The discounted price for each of the secondary products may be based on a profit margin of the primary product. In another embodiment determining the package price involves determining a discounted price for the primary product and for the secondary products and summing the discounted prices of the primary product and the secondary products. A discounted price for the primary product or the secondary products may be based on a profit margin of the primary product and or a profit margin of at least one of the secondary products.

A package offer may comprise an offer for sale of a pre determined number of the secondary products selected by the customer at the package price. The package offer may instead comprise an offer for sale of a customer selected number of the secondary products wherein the secondary products are selected by the customer from a plurality of available secondary products at a package price. The package price may thus vary based on the customer selected number of secondary products. In another embodiment the package offer may comprise the primary product and a plurality of lists of secondary products. The package offer may comprise an offer for sale of a pre determined number of the secondary products wherein one secondary product is selected by the customer from each of the plurality of lists at the package price. In another embodiment multiple package offers may be presented to the customer. By way of illustration a first package offer for sale of a first package at a first package price may be presented to the customer along with a second package offer for sale of a second package at a second package price. The customer may thus choose to accept one or more of the package offers.

Systems in accordance with the present invention may comprise a central server and a customer device. Point of sale devices and or retailer devices may also be included. A central server may include or be in communication with a database storing information pertaining to products. A central server may also host or be in communication with a web site displaying information pertaining to products offered for sale. A central server may thus be operable to determine when a customer has expressed an interest in a primary product to determine a package to determine a package price and to present a package offer to the customer. A central server may also comprise such components as a communications port operable to send and receive data and a processor operable to perform the above describe functions in response to signals or data received via the communications port.

A customer device may be operable to send input signals such as data and commands to the central server. The customer device may send such input signals to the central server via a web site. A customer device may include such components as a display device a communications port and an input device. An input device may be operable to generate an input signal indicating an interest in a primary product. The processor may be operable to manage and control the functions of the customer device such as executing a browser to display pages of the web site on the display device send signals via the communications port to the central server receive a package offer from the central server via the communications port and display the package offer on the display device. The processor may be operable to perform at least some of the functionality associated with the customer device.

The customer device allows the customer to communicate with a central controller operating in accordance with the present invention and may comprise for example a kiosk personal computer or portable input device in communication with the central server. A portable input device may comprise for example a personal digital assistant PDA hand held bar code scanner a one way or two way pager or a wire or wireless telephone e.g. a cellular telephone . The customer device may thus comprise an input device operable to input the primary product identifier a display device operable to present a package offer received from the central server and a printer operable to print a printed version of the package offer. In a physical retail embodiment the customer device may be further operable to output a printed version of the package offer that may include a code identifying the package offer and product identifiers for the primary product and the secondary products included in the package. The input device of the customer device may optionally be a bar code reader.

The following description will hereinafter refer to the drawings in which like numerals indicate like elements throughout the several figures.

Referring now to comprising and overview block diagrams of systems A C are provided in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention. As shown in a system A in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention may be practiced in an on line retail environment. In such an embodiment a central server may host or be in communication with an on line retail establishment. The central server may be a web server of a retailer e.g. a retailer server . The central server may generate web pages documents on the World Wide Web that typically include an HTML file and associated graphics and script files to be accessed via the World Wide Web and may also allow purchases to be made. A web site may consist of several such web pages and associated databases. According to another embodiment the central server is a computer associated with the operation of a physical store. Such a computer for example a point of sale POS server would perform tasks such as inventory management and item pricing for the store.

On line retail establishments are commonly referred to as virtual stores electronic stores e stores Internet stores e commerce web sites e business web sites and the like. An on line retail establishment comprises appropriate hardware and software for displaying web pages of a web site in order to advertise products and for completing transactions with customers via the web site. The term product is used herein to refer to a good and or a service. If the central server does not host the on line retail establishment it may be in communication with another server that hosts the on line retail establishment. For the sake of clarity it will be assumed herein that the central server hosts the exemplary on line retail establishment. As should be apparent to those skilled in the art the entity controlling the central server may be distinct from the on line retailer.

The central server may comprise a conventional computer system configured with hardware and or software required for communicating with a distributed network and optionally for hosting an on line retail establishment. Those skilled in the art will understand that devices in communication with each other need not be continually transmitting to each other. On the contrary such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary and may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example a device in communication with another device via the Internet may not transmit data to the other device for weeks at a time.

The central server may further comprise a processor for executing various application program modules. Processor may comprise one or more microprocessors such as Pentium microprocessors. If the processor comprises a plurality of microprocessors the plurality of microprocessors may or may not operate in parallel. The processor is in communication with a data storage device . The data storage device comprises an appropriate combination of magnetic optical and or semiconductor memory and may include Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM and or a hard disk. The processor and the storage device may be for example i located entirely within a single computer or other computing device ii connected to each other by a remote communication medium such as a serial port cable telephone line or radio frequency transceiver or iii a combination thereof. In one embodiment the central server may comprise one or more computers that are connected to a remote server computer for maintaining databases.

The data storage device stores a program for controlling the processor . The processor performs instructions of the program and thereby operates in accordance with the present invention and particularly in accordance with the methods described in detail herein. The program may be stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. The program furthermore includes program elements that may be necessary such as device drivers for allowing the processor to interface with computer peripheral devices. Appropriate device drivers and other necessary program elements are known to those skilled in the art and need not be described in detail herein.

The storage device also stores i an application program module operating system OS ii a database management system DBMS iii a product database iv a transaction database v a session database and vi a customer database . The databases and are described in detail below and depicted with exemplary entries in the accompanying figures. As will be understood by those skilled in the art the schematic illustrations and accompanying descriptions of the databases presented herein are exemplary arrangements for stored representations of information. A number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by the tables shown. Similarly the illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information and those skilled in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those illustrated herein.

Central server further comprises a communications port for sending data to and receiving data from customer devices A B and C. The processor may also be in communication with a clock that generates signals representing time and date.

Customer devices A B and C may comprise conventional computer systems kiosks personal digital assistants PDAs or any other device configured with hardware and or software for communicating with the distributed network . Customer device B will now be discussed in detail. It should be understood that customer device B may be representative of customer devices A and C. Customer device B comprises a processor which may comprise one or more microprocessors such as such as one or more Pentium microprocessors. If the processor comprises a plurality of microprocessors the plurality of microprocessors may or may not operate in parallel. The processor is in communication with data storage device which stores various application program modules such as an operating system OS and a browser program module . The browser program module is operable to interpret web page files such as HyperText Mark up Language HTML files received via the distributed network .

Customer devices A B and C may also include other application program modules such as electronic mail e mail program modules File Transfer Protocol FTP program modules other file transfer program modules and the like to interact with other resources offered via the distributed network . Customer devices B further comprises a communications port for sending and receiving data. Customer device B further comprises peripheral devices such as an output device an input device or any other well known peripheral device. The output device may comprise a video monitor or other device operative to display at least alphanumeric characters to the customer. The output device may also comprise a printer operative to register indicia on paper or other material thereby printing receipts. The input device may comprise a keyboard mouse touch screen or microphone. Many types of input devices and output devices are known to those skilled in the art and need not be described in detail herein.

As shown a customer device as illustrated by customer device A may optionally comprise a bar code reader A.

As shown a customer device as illustrated by customer devices B and C may be in communication with the central server via the distributed network . Alternatively as illustrated by customer device A a customer device may be in communication with the central server via a dedicated communications link A. The connections between the various components of the exemplary system A may be wire or wireless connections and may comprise for example modem direct network connection or any other means of communicating with the distributed network . The distributed network may comprise the Internet a LAN a WAN or more than one interconnected network. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the network configuration shown in is by way of example only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

As shown in a system B in accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention may be practiced in a physical retail environment. The central server may be configured for communication with one or more point of sale terminals A B and C and one or more customer devices A B and C located at one or more retail establishments. The connections between the various components of the exemplary system B may be via modem direct network connection or any other means of electronic communication. The central server may be located at the retail establishment or may be remotely located from the retail establishment. As shown customer devices B and C and point of sale terminals B and C may communicate with the central server via the distributed network . A customer device A and point of sale terminal A may also communicate with the central server via a dedicated communications links A and B respectively or via other means of electronic communication.

As is known in the art typical point of sale terminals are equipped with processors and memory storage devices. Point of sale terminals may further comprise peripheral devices such as keypads barcode readers credit card readers other input devices and display devices. Point of sale terminals may also be equipped with hardware and or software for communicating with a distributed network or a dedicated communications link B. Point of sale terminals are also customarily operable to communicate with one or more financial institutions via financial networks not shown for the purpose of completing financial transactions.

A customer device located at a retail establishment may be referred to herein as a customer service device and may comprise a kiosk or a portable data input device such as a barcode scanner. In one embodiment a customer may scan a product identifier such as an SKU stock keeping unit number in the format of a one dimensional or two dimensional bar code using a bar code scanner. The bar code scanner may be part of a customer service kiosk or may be a portable device available to the customer. In one variation of this embodiment a customer may be required to be a member of a frequent shopper club in order to have access to the customer service device. The customer service device may transmit the product identifier to the central server for assembly of a package. Assembly of a package at the central server may be performed in the same manner as in an on line retail environment. The database described above with reference to an on line retail environment may function equally well in a physical retail environment.

Operation of a system C in accordance with a multiple retailer embodiment may best be described by way of example. In an on line retail environment a web site of an on line retail establishment may administer web pages relating to products from a first retailer a second retailer and a third retailer. When the central server determines that a customer is interested in a primary product offered for sale by for example the first retailer the central server may assemble a package that includes the primary product offered for sale by the first retailer a secondary product offered for sale by the second retailer and another secondary product offered for sale by the third retailer. A package price may be calculated for the package which reflects a discount in the retail price of one or more of the package products. If the customer accepts the package offer the central server completes the transaction with the customer i.e. collects funds in the amount of the package price from the customer instructs the various retailers to deliver the package products to the customer and settles accounts with each retailer i.e. provides each retailer with the appropriate amount of funds based on the price of the product sold by the retailer as included in the package price . The tasks of instructing retailers to ship products and settling of accounts may be performed electronically or manually.

The illustrative system architectures described with reference to have been provided by way of example only. These and other system architectures will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly the scope of the present invention should not be limited by the various system architectures described and shown above.

As mentioned the profit margin to be realized by the retailer may play a significant role in the assembly of a package. While varying packages may be assembled based on products in which the customer has expressed an interest only certain of these packages may make economic sense for the retailer. Thus the illustrative product table A includes financial data relating to each product. The financial data comprises the cost of the product to the retailer the retail price of the product and the minimum price at which the retailer or the operator of the central server will allow the product to be offered in a package. Using this financial data in various ways the central server may calculate a package price for an assembled package and determine whether that package price meets certain pre defined criteria for profitability. For example the retailer may specify that a package may only be offered to a customer if the package price reflects less than a 25 reduction in profit margin as compared to the sum of the retail prices of the package products. Those skilled in the art will recognize that a product may be included in the package at a price that is anywhere between its retail price and its minimum price . It may be desirable in some cases to include the primary product in the package at its full retail price and to offer discounted prices on only the secondary products in the package.

Similarly if the customer chooses to purchase the primary product and two secondary products from the menu the pick two package price will be effective. Alternately the package offer may be for each of the associated secondary products that correspond to a primary product. A package price for a package including all of the associated secondary products may be calculated based on minimum prices for each product see . Also the associated secondary products included in the package may be selected based on a query of a session database see to determine which if any of the associated secondary products have been of interest to the customer in the past. Alternate embodiments of the product table B will be apparent to those of skill in the art. For example any number of associated secondary products or pre determined package prices may be included within the product table B.

In one embodiment the central server may present each list of associated secondary products and to the customer along with the corresponding package prices and . The customer may thus be presented with the option to select either a first package or a second package. In another embodiment the central server may select only one list of secondary products or for inclusion in a package to be presented to the customer. In this way a different package may be presented to the customer each time the customer indicates an interest in a particular product. Selection of a list of associated secondary products or may be based for example on random or sequential selection or on historical data pertaining to the customer.

By way of illustration the central server may access a session database described below to determine whether some of the products in one list of associated secondary products or were of interest to the customer in the past. Similarly a query of the transaction database or the customer database may reveal that the customer was previously offered certain products and had declined to purchase such products. In addition a transaction database or a customer database may be accessed to determine whether the customer has a history of accepting package offers involving a particular discount rate. Other methods for selecting between multiple associated secondary products lists or will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Accordingly when the central server determines that a primary product is of interest to a customer the central server may access the product database E to retrieve a package offer based on the product identifier of the primary product. Thus the central controller for product P may retrieve product P and product P and present an offer to the customer for all three products for a single package price of 300.00 . The package offers may be previously defined by an operator of the central server or automatically determined and stored based on for example revenue management theories.

The above described product tables A B C D and E are provided by way of example only. A system in accordance with the present invention may incorporate one or more of the exemplary product tables A B C D and E and or variations and or combinations thereof. Additionally those skilled in the art will appreciate that various aspects of the invention may be practiced without the need for a products database .

The illustrative session table is particularly useful in the on line retail environment. Each session table is identified by a unique session identifier . A session identifier may be associated with a customer by storing a customer identifier and the session identifier in a customer database . A session identifier may be assigned to a customer when the central controller first detects that a new customer has entered the web site administered by the central server . For example a session identifier may be assigned when it is detected that a customer has loaded or connected to a page of the web site. The session table stores data records relating to various products. Each data record includes a product identifier a time selected and a time released . In an exemplary embodiment a web site may comprise a web page for each product offered for sale by the on line retail establishment. Each web page may have a unique identifier which may be the same as or different from the product identifier . The central server may be operable to detect the time at which a particular web page is accessed and released by a customer device . Thus the time selected may correspond to the time at which the central server detects that the customer has selected or loaded a particular web page associated with a corresponding product . The time released may correspond to the time at which the central server determines that the customer has released or unloaded the particular web page. When the customer releases a web page he or she may select another web page and the central server may record the appropriate information for such other web page in the session table .

The session database record may further include a customer identifier. The customer identifier may comprise information that uniquely identifies a customer or a customer device. In the online embodiment of the present invention the customer identifier may be included within a cookie that is assigned to a customer the first time he visits the web site of the central server and deposited to the customer device as well as stored in the customer database . Such a cookie is a block of data e.g. a block of ASCII text that a web server e.g. the central server stores on a customer device e.g. a personal computer . When a customer returns to the same web site the browser of the customer device sends a copy of the cookie back to the central controller. Cookies may be used to identify users of the customer terminal to instruct the central controller to send a customized version of a web page to submit account information for the user and for other administrative purposes. In the present invention a cookie may be used to instruct the central controller to retrieve the session record s associated with the cookie in order to determine what products the customer had previously indicated interest in. Alternatively the cookie may store one or more session identifiers associated with the customer device directly. A person of ordinary skill in the art of web site administration will understand many variations of how to track customer interest in various product over the course of a single or multiple visits e.g. sessions . A customer identifier may be the same or different than the session identifier. For example for purposes of tracking several sessions of a single customer the customer may be assigned a single customer identifier the first time he visits the web site and a unique session identifier each time he visits the web site.

The session table may record all customer interactions with a web site from the time the customer logs on to the web site until the customer logs off of the web site during a single visit to the web site. The elapsed time between a time selected and a time released may be useful in determining whether a product is of interest to the customer. The format for the time selected and a time released illustrated in is hours minutes seconds . For example it may be determined that a customer is interested in a product if the web page associated with that products is displayed to the customer device for more than a pre determined amount of time e.g. 2 seconds . Any time spent viewing a web page that is less than the pre determined amount of time may be considered to be casual browsing on the part of the customer.

Other methods for determining and recording the products of interest to a customer during an on line session will occur to those of skill in the art. For example the central server may be configured to determine that a customer is interested in a product only upon receiving an input signal to that effect. Upon receiving such an input signal the central server may record the appropriate product identifier in the session table . Examples of input signals that may indicate a customer s interest in a product include a key word search for the product an e mail requesting information relating to a product a request to download information relating to a product addition of a product to a virtual shopping cart or other list of products selected for purchase and the like.

A payment identifier such as a credit card number or a financial account number may also be recorded in the transaction record to identify the customer s financial account that was charged debited or credited during the initiating transaction. The purchase total representing the total purchase price paid by the customer may also be stored in the transaction record . The purchase total of 307.79 in is illustrated as comprising the sum of the price paid for each of the products included in the transaction plus an exemplary . sales tax. The transaction record further includes an indication of whether the customer was presented with a package offer during the transaction illustrated in the subject record. Such an indication is stored in the package offered field . An indication of whether the package was accepted is stored in field . Fields and may be used by the operator of central server to track how many time package offers are presented to and accepted by customers. Such information may be tracked for individual customers by use of the session identifier .

The exemplary transaction record stores data objects relating to products included in a package that was purchased by a customer. Each data object includes for example a product identifier a retail price and a price paid . If the customer purchased the product as part of a package offer the price paid may be lower than the retail price . Corresponding to each product identifier is an indication of whether the product was purchased as part of an accepted offer. This indication is stored in field . An entry of Y in field indicates that the corresponding product was purchased as part of an accepted package offer. An entry of N in field indicates that the package was not purchased as part of an accepted package offer. An indication of which product was the primary product that triggered the presentation of the package offer to the customer may also be stored in the transaction record . Such an indication is illustrated in data object by an entry of P in the package product field .

The transaction record also stores an indication of the payment status of each product included in the subject transaction. This field may be useful in the physical retail embodiment where a customer may request be presented with and accept a package offer at a customer device that is remote to the POS terminal at which he provides payment for the products he is purchasing. In such an embodiment when a customer accepts a package offer a transaction record is created and stored indicating the products included in the transaction that are part of the package offer. The status of the products included in the package may be set to pending at this time. A transaction identifier for the transaction may be output to the customer for presentation to the operator of the POS terminal when providing payment for the products. Accordingly when the customer presents the transaction identifier to the POS operator who enters it into the POS terminal the transaction record is retrieved and the appropriate prices for the product as indicated in the price paid field are applied to the transaction total. The package price charged to the customer as well as the savings that the customer achieved by purchasing the products as a package may be displayed to the customer at the POS or printed on the customer s receipt. The status of each of the products included in the package as stored in the record of the transaction database may be set to paid once the customer provides the appropriate payment. If it is determined at the POS that all of the products included in the package offer are not present in the customer s current transaction the customer may be charged the full retail price for the products that are included in the package offer and included in the current transaction. In one embodiment another package is dynamically assembled based on the products included in the current transaction and presented to the customer at the POS.

The customer record may be used to build a customer profile of the customer identified by customer identifier . In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the customer record tracks each of the products that a customer indicated interest in during his past visits to the Web site hosted by central server . The customer record comprises data objects each storing information regarding a primary product that was determined to be of interest to the customer. Each of such products is identified by product identifier in transaction record . Associated with each product identifier is i a date of interest which indicates the date on which the customer exhibited interest in the product ii a purchase status which indicates whether the customer has purchased the product to date iii a package status which indicates whether a package offer that includes the primary product has been offered to the customer and whether it has been accepted by the customer iv a discount which indicates if a package offer for the product has been presented to the customer how much of a discount in the retail price of the product or a combination discount in the sum or retail prices of all of the product in the package was offered to the customer v a transaction identifier that indicates the transaction in which the purchase of the product was included if any and vi a session identifier that indicates the session during which the customer indicated interest in the product.

For example data object indicates that customer C987654321 indicated interest in product P on May 30 1999 and was presented with a package offer at a package price that was 10 less than the sum of the retail prices of the products included in the package but that the customer declined the package offer. Data object indicates that the same customer indicated interested again in product P on Jun. 2 1999 and was again presented with a package offer this time at a package price of 15 less than the sum of the retail prices of the products included in the package. Data object indicates that this time the customer accepted the package offer and the product was purchased by the customer. This may be an indication that the customer was swayed by the higher discount and should be presented in the future with package offers that include at least a 15 discount in the future.

The data stored in customer record is exemplary only. Other variations will be obvious to one of ordinary skill in the art. For example an indication of the secondary products include in a package offer to the customer may also be stored. Such information may be used to evaluate for example whether the customer is more likely to accept a package offer if certain products or types of products are included in the package offer.

Referring now to the web page demonstrates a manner in which a package offer may be presented to a customer in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. The web page B includes essentially the same elements and as web page A but package offer A has been substituted with package offer B. Package offer B comprises a package offer in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention wherein the customer is allowed to assemble his or her own package by selecting one product from a plurality of menus that include two or more products each of course in variations of this embodiment the customer may be allowed to select more than one product from each menu . The embodiment illustrated in is similar to the embodiment illustrated in . Accordingly a customer presented with package offer B must first select one product from menu and one product from menu before selecting graphic in order to accept the package offer.

The web pages A and B are shown by way of example only. Other methods for presenting a package offer via a web site or other mediums will occur to those of skill in the art.

In response to determining that the primary product is of interest to the customer a package is assembled at step comprising the primary product and at least one secondary product. The secondary product s may be selected from a database of available secondary products and by be selected based on a prior expression of interest in the product by the customer a relationship of the secondary product to the primary product e.g. the two are associated in a database as complementary profit margin considerations etc. Assembly of a package may be performed by the central server configured for execution of a package assembly program module that may be a component of program . The program of the central server may be configured to assemble packages on an ad hoc basis or may be configured to access pre assembled packages stored in the product database . Exemplary methods for assembling packages will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

Next at step a package price for the package is determined. The package price is preferably less than the sum of the retail prices of each product in the package. The program of the central server may include computer executable instructions for determining the package price for the package. It should be appreciated that the assembly of a package and the determination of a package price may be interrelated tasks. For example the program may be configured to offer a customer a package of products having a pre determined package price. The pre determined package price may be a specific dollar amount or a pre defined percentage of the total retail price for the package products. It is likely to be the case that only certain secondary products may be included in the package in order to satisfy the pre determined package price and allow the on line retailer to earn an acceptable profit. Exemplary methods for determining a package price are discussed below with reference to .

After the package is assembled and the package price is determined a package offer is presented to the customer at step . A package offer comprises an offer for sale of the package at the package price. In an on line retail environment the package offer may be transmitted by the central server to a web site of the on line retail establishment for presentation to the customer. The presentation of the package offer may include an input field or a selectable graphic allowing the customer to indicate an acceptance or rejection of the package offer as illustrated by elements and of . Other methods and interfaces for presenting a package offer to the customer will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and are considered to be within the scope of the present invention. As an example a package offer may be presented to the user as a pop up graphic on a web page for a limited period of time. If the user does not indicate an acceptance of the package offer within the limited time duration the pop up graphic may be removed from the web page without any affirmative input from the customer.

Preferably the package offer is presented to the customer while the customer is considering whether to purchase the primary product. However the package offer may alternatively be presented to the customer after the customer has purchased the primary product as an enticement for the customer to spend more money at the on line retail establishment. Thus the package offer may be e mailed or otherwise communicated to the customer even after the customer has logged off of the web site associated with the on line retail establishment. If the customer accepts such an offer any discount due to the customer as a result of a discount in the retail price of the primary product as included in the package offer may be i credited to a financial account associated with the customer ii provided to the customer as credit that is redeemable with the retailer operating the central server for future purchases or iii reflected as a larger discount in the secondary product retail prices of the package offer.

Alternatively a package offer may be triggered once the customer indicates a loss of interest in a product. Such a loss of interest may be indicated by the customer i removing the product from a virtual shopping basket or ii selecting another Web page or another product without placing the subject product in a virtual shopping basket. Additionally a customer may be presented with a package offer if he has had a product in his virtual shopping basket for a predetermined amount of time without purchasing it. For example a customer may be sent an e mail message that includes a presentation of a package offer including the product the customer has in his virtual shopping basket for the predetermined amount of time . If the customer has more than one product in his virtual shopping basket for a predetermined amount of time a package may be assembled using one of the products in the virtual shopping basket as a primary product and at least one other product in the virtual shopping basket as a secondary product.

In a physical retail environment package offers may be presented to the customer in similar manners via a customer service device. A customer service device may optionally include an input device for allowing the user to generate an input signal indicating an acceptance or rejection of a package offer.

At step a determination is made as to whether the customer accepts the package offer. If the customer does not accept the package offer a determination is made at step as to whether another package should be assembled. The determination of whether to assemble another package may be based on many factors such as whether any other packages make sense for the retailer based on inventory and or profitability considerations whether a certain number of packages have been declined by the customer whether the customer has indicated a desire not to be presented with further packages etc. If a decision is made to assemble another package the exemplary method may be repeated from step where another primary product that is of interest to the customer is determined. Alternately the method may be repeated from step in order to assemble another package based on the initial primary product. As shown the exemplary method ends at step after it is determined at step that the customer has accepted a package offer or after it is determined at step that no further package is to be assembled. Those skilled in the art should recognize that exemplary method may be repeated during a session. In other words the customer is not required to complete all transactions and log off or exit the retail establishment upon accepting a package offer. The customer may accept more than one package offer during a session and may complete any or all transactions at any time during the session.

If the customer indicates an acceptance of the package offer the transaction may be completed via the web site in a customary manner. For example the customer may input a credit card number or other payment identifier to the web site. The central server or other server hosting the web site may be in communication with a financial institution for the purpose of completing transactions. Completing a transaction may comprise charging debiting or crediting a financial account identified by the customer. Alternately the central server or other server hosting the web site may be in communication with a point of sale terminal at a physical retail establishment for the purpose of completing transactions.

After the transaction is complete the central server may be configured to arrange for shipment of the package products to the customer. By way of illustration the central server may be configured to automatically generate a shipping order that is transmitted to a shipping department of the retailer. Delivery of the package products to the customer may be accomplished in any well known manner. In one embodiment the customer may elect or be required to appear at a physical retail establishment warehouse or distribution center to obtain the package products.

In a physical retail environment an input device of a customer service device may also allow the customer to enter a payment identifier that may identify a financial account to be charged debited or credited in the amount of the package price or may identify another form of payment such as electronic currency e.g. e cash .

However in the physical retail environment payment of the package price will preferably be accomplished at a point of sale terminal that may be separate from the costumer device at which the customer is presented with and accepts a package offer. In an illustrative embodiment the customer may be presented with a customer identifier such as a personal identification number PIN or other type of code upon accepting the package. The customer device may display the customer identifier to the customer via a display device. Alternately the customer device may be equipped with a printer for printing a coupon or other voucher type paper that includes the customer identifier. This coupon may further include an indication of the products included in the package price e.g. the description and SKU of each product included in the package . The customer identifier may optionally be in the form of a barcode or any other form of machine readable indicia that is to be input into the point of sale terminal by way of a scanner. In a frequent shopper club embodiment a frequent shopper ID previously provided to the customer may serve as the customer identifier.

The customer identifier may also be stored by the central server in association with the customer s transaction record in the transaction database . The customer identifier may subsequently be presented by the customer to the operator of a point of sale terminal . The point of sale terminal may then transmit the customer identifier to the central server for retrieval of the customer s record from the transaction database . As will be apparent the point of sale terminal may include an input device such as a scanner to receive the product identifiers from the products that the customer believes to be included in the package.

After indicating an acceptance of a package offer and receiving a customer identifier the customer may obtain what he or she believes to be the package products and proceed to the point of sale terminal for completion of the transaction. The point of sale terminal may communicate with the central server to retrieve the customer s accepted package price from a transaction database and to charge the customer appropriately. The point of sale terminal may compare the product identifiers of the products obtained by the customer with the product identifiers stored in the transaction database in association with the package offer. Upon verification that the customer has obtained each product included in the package the package price may be charged to the customer.

At step A at least one secondary product is selected for inclusion in the package. Preferably the secondary product s are selected based on a prior expression of interest by the customer. The product database may store only those products that were previously of interest to the customer. Alternately a session database see may store such information and selection of the secondary products may be performed based on cross reference to the session database for a determination of secondary products in which the customer has expressed an interest.

In another embodiment selection of the secondary products may be based on cross reference to a product database such as illustrated by product table E which may store pre determined or dynamically determined associations between the primary product and one or more secondary products. For example with specific reference to the product database E specifies that if a product having product identifier P is determined to be the primary product the products having product identifiers P and P are to be selected as the secondary products and the three products presented to the customer for a package price of 300.00 as depicted in record E. As a specific illustration if a red scarf is determined to be the primary product of interest to the customer an entry in the product table E may specify that the secondary products to be selected for the package are a matching pair of red gloves and a red hat. Other methods for selection of secondary products will occur to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Next at step A the profit margin for the primary product is determined based on the retail price and the cost of the primary product e.g. profit margin retail price cost . In one embodiment of the present invention the selection of the secondary products to be included in the package with the primary product is based on the profit margin of the primary product. For example if the primary product has a high profit margin secondary products with relatively low profit margins may be included in the package offer because the high profit margin of the primary product may be used to fund the overall discount of the package price as compared to the sum of the retail prices of the primary product and the secondary product s .

For example a primary product may be a dress that has a profit margin of 50 e.g. retail price of dress 150 and the cost of the dress 100 . The central server may thus include a relatively low margin product such as a scarf that has an associated profit margin of 5 e.g. retail price of scarf 50 and cost of scarf 45 . Due to the high margin of the dress the package of the dress and the scarf may be offered at an attractively discounted price of 170. The package price of 170 is 15 less than 200 the sum of the retail prices for the dress and the scarf 150 50 200 . If the primary product had not been a high margin product the retailer may have been unwilling to offer such a high discount due to an unacceptably low overall profit margin for the contents of the package. In the above example the retailer earns a 30 overall profit margin on the contents of the package referred to herein as a package profit margin 175 package price 100 cost of dress 45 cost of scarf 30 . If however the margin of the dress had only been 15 e.g. the cost of the dress in the above example 135 the retailer would have suffered a loss of 5 on the package if he had offered it to the customer for the package price of 170 170 package price 135 cost of dress 45 cost of scarf 5 . The retailer may find such a loss unacceptable. In order to prevent such a loss the retailer may i determine a lower discount e.g. less than 15 in the above example or ii select a secondary product with a higher profit margin and attempt to assemble another package at the relatively higher discount e.g. 15 .

Also the retailer may wish to earn a minimum package profit margin on each package offer. For example the retailer may set a minimum profit margin for a package price at a predetermined amount e.g. 10 or at a predetermined percentage of the sum of the profit margins for the primary and secondary products included in a package offer e.g. 50 . As an example of the latter a profit margin for a primary product is 50 a profit margin for a first secondary product is 10 and a profit margin for a second secondary product is 20. The sum of the profit margins for the primary product and the two secondary products is 80 50 10 20 80 . The retailer has set the minimum package profit margin at 50 of the sum of the profit margins of the products included in the package based on the retail price of each product. Thus in order for the three products above to be offered in a package the package profit margin has to be 40 or more. Accordingly in such an embodiment the central server may take the profit margin of the primary product and the secondary product s into account when assembling a package and determining a package price.

In still another illustrative embodiment selection of secondary products for inclusion in a package may be based entirely on criteria for profitability. Based on products available in inventory the central server may attempt to assemble a package that provides a particular discount level to the customer while yielding a certain profit margin for the retailer. In one embodiment of the present invention the retailer may wish to include products that are distressed e.g. have not been selling well or are about to expire in a package. In such a case the retailer may offer a very high discount on the secondary product because any price received as a result of the distressed product being sold as part of a package may be more profitable than letting the product sit on the shelf longer and or expire. Such distressed products may be flagged in an inventory database and selected by the central server for inclusion in a package. The secondary products selected for the package may have no relationship to the primary product other than a monetary relationship. For example if a primary product of interest to a customer is a television the secondary products included in the package may be a shovel and a sweater which were selected based entirely on profit margin considerations. However as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art a package offer is more likely to be accepted by a customer if the package includes products that are known to be of interest to the customer. Therefore assembly of packages based entirely on economic considerations may not be practical.

At step A it is determined whether the profit margin for the primary product is high. Of course the definition of a high profit margin is relative. For example a retailer may set a threshold amount at or above which the profit margin is to be considered high and below which the profit margin is considered to be low. The threshold amount may alternatively be a threshold percentage of the sum of the costs of the products included in the package. In an illustrative embodiment the criteria for determining whether a profit margin is high may be customer specific. In other words the retailer may be willing to realize less of a profit margin on package sales to regular or preferred customers as compared to infrequent customers. Furthermore the retailer may determine that a particular customer has historically accepted packages offers that provide a certain percentage discount and may attempt to assemble a package having a package price that provides that percentage discount. Data pertaining to historical transactions may be stored in a transaction database or a customer database as shown in and illustrated in and .

If the profit margin of the primary product is determined to be sufficiently high a more deeply discounted package price is calculated at step A. If the profit margin of the primary product is not sufficiently high a less discounted package price is determined at step A. Again the retailer may set a threshold percentage e.g. 15 off of the sum of the retail prices of the products included in the package at or above which a package price is to be considered a more discounted package price and below which a package price is to be considered a less discounted package price. Alternatively rather than setting a threshold amount or percentage the retailer may set a range of acceptable amount or percentages within which the package profit margin is to be considered acceptable e.g. 10 25 rather than high or low. After calculation of the package price the profit margin for the package is calculated at step A by subtracting the cost of each package product from the package price. At step A a determination is made as to whether the profit margin of the package is acceptable to the retailer. If the profit margin is not acceptable to the retailer a decision to assemble a different package may be made at step A. If a new package is to be assembled the exemplary method A is repeated from step A where another at least one secondary package is selected. However if it is decided at step A not to assemble a new package the package price for the existing package is adjusted e.g. increased by a predetermined percentage or amount at step A. From step A the exemplary method A is repeated from step A where the profit margin of the package is calculated based on the adjusted package price. When a package is finally assembled having an acceptable package price the method advances from step A to step A where the package offer is presented to the customer. The exemplary method A then ends at step A.

Next at step the minimum profit margin for the primary product is determined. The minimum profit margin corresponds to the difference in the minimum price at which the retailer is willing to sell the primary product and the cost of the primary product. At step one or more secondary products are selected for inclusion in the package. Selection of the secondary products may be based on the retail margin or the minimum margin of the primary product. In other words if the retail margin or the minimum margin for the primary product is high more expensive secondary products may be selected for inclusion in the package. Other manners of selecting secondary products for inclusion in a package have been discussed herein. Still other methods for selecting secondary products for inclusion in a package will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. At step the retail profit margin for each secondary product selected for inclusion in the package is determined. At step the minimum profit margin for each secondary product included in the package is determined. Then at step the minimum profit margin for the package is determined by summing the minimum profit margin for the primary product and each minimum profit margin of the secondary products included in the package.

At step a determination is made as to whether the minimum package profit margin is acceptable. If the minimum package profit margin is not acceptable a decision may be made at step to discard the present package and assemble a new package. If it is decided to assemble a new package the exemplary method is repeated from step where a new set of secondary products are selected for inclusion in the new package. However if it is decided not to assemble a new package the minimum profit margin of the primary product and or one or more of the secondary products included in the package is adjusted at step . To adjust the minimum profit margin for a product a new price for that product is selected that falls between the retail price and the minimum price for that product. After adjustment of the minimum profit margin of the primary product and or one or more of the secondary products the adjusted package profit margin is calculated at step . From step the method is repeated from step where it is determined if the package profit margin is acceptable. When a package is finally determined having an acceptable profit margin e.g. a profit margin above a predefined amount or percentage or within an acceptable amount or percentage range the package offer for sale of the package at the package price is presented to the customer at step . The exemplary method then ends at step .

The process of begins at step where it is determined that a primary product is of interest to a customer. Various methods of determining that a product is of interest to a customer and should therefore be considered a primary product in accordance with this invention are discussed above. In response to the determination that a primary product is of interest to a customer the session record of the customer that has indicated the interest in the current product is accessed in step in order to determine whether there are any other products the customer has indicated interest in earlier in the session. For example referring to session record if it is determine that product P is the primary product the session record indicates in data object that product P is also of interest to the customer since the customer had previously selected it. It should be assumed for purposes of the present example that if a the elapsed time between the time selected and time released corresponding to a product in the session record is at least two seconds the product should be considered of interest to the customer. Referring again to at step a product from the session record is selected as a secondary product to be included in a package offer with the primary product. In the example discussed above with reference to session record product P is selected as the secondary product.

Referring again to at step the record of the primary product is retrieved from the product database based on the product identifier. In the current example product P is considered the primary product. Therefore the record A of product P is retrieved from product table A for the purposes of the example. At step the minimum price for the product is determined. Such a determination may be made based on for example a minimum profit margin set by the retailer. Alternatively such a determination may be made by retrieving the minimum price associated with the primary product directly from the product database. Again referring to product table A as an example record A indicates that the minimum price for product P is 32.00 . Referring again to the process a discounted price for the primary product is set at step based on the minimum price. In the current example the system will set the discounted price as to be included in the package at 32.00 the minimum price. Alternatively the discounted price may be set at any price not greater than 35.00 the retail price and not less than 32.00 the minimum price .

Referring again to process the record of the secondary product determined in step is retrieved from the product database in step and the minimum price for the secondary product is determined in step . Referring again to the example using the product table A the secondary product P has an associated minimum price of 34.00 as indicated by record A. Returning to process the discounted price as to be included in the package price is determined for the secondary product in step . The discounted price may be based on for example the minimum price and the retail price and any other rules set by the retailer. An example of such a rule may be that the discounted price should be set half way between the retail price and the minimum price for the secondary product for an initial attempt to calculate an acceptable package price. Thus in the current example the discounted price for product P is set at 37.00.

Returning to process a determination of whether another secondary product should be selected is made at decision block . Such a determination may be made based on for example whether the retailer has set a minimum or maximum number of products to be included in a package. Alternatively such a determination may be made based on an evaluation of the package profit margin based on the current products in the package. For example if the package profit margin is unacceptably low another secondary product may be selected maybe a relatively high profit margin secondary product in an attempt to obtain an acceptable package profit margin. If at decision block it is determined that another secondary product is to be selected the process loops back to step . If at decision block it is determined that another secondary product is not to be selected the process continues to step . For the sake of the current example it is assumed that the retailer set a maximum number of products in a package at two so another secondary product is not selected.

At step the package price is determined based on the discounted prices set in steps and . In the current example the package price is determined to be 69.00 32.00 for the primary product P 37.00 for the secondary product P . At step the profit margin of the package is determined. The package profit margin as determined above is determined by subtracting the cost of each product included in the package from the package price. In the current example the cost associated with the primary product P as indicated by record A of product table A is 30.00. The cost associated with secondary product P as indicated by record A of product table A is also 30.00. Therefore the package profit margin is 9.00 69.00 30.00 30.00 9.00 . Another way of looking at the profit margin is that it is 15 of the sum of the cost of the products included in the package 9.00 30.00 30.00 100 15 .

At decision block it is determined whether the package profit margin is acceptable. As discussed above a retailer may set a minimum profit margin or a range of acceptable profit margins in the form of a dollar amount or a percentage. If at decision block it is determined that the profit margin is acceptable the process continues to step . At step the package offer comprising the primary product determined in step and the secondary product s selected in step are presented to the customer for the package price determined in step . Of course other information such as descriptions or images of the products included in the package could also be presented to the customer as part of the package offer. For the sake of the current example it is assumed that 15 is an acceptable package profit margin.

If at decision block it is determined that the package profit margin is not acceptable the process continues to decision block . At decision block it is determined whether another package offer should be created. Creating another package offer may comprise determining another package price for the primary product and the secondary product s defining the package offer. Creating another package offer may also comprise selecting another secondary product to be included in the package in addition to or instead of at least one secondary product currently included in the package.

If at decision block it is determined that another package offer should not be created the process may end. It may be determined that another package offer should not be created if for example there are no other secondary products available e.g. there are no other products other than the ones already selected store in the session record being used to create the current package and or if the discounted prices for the products included in the package were already set to the minimum prices for the products. If at decision block it is determined that another package offer should be created the process continues to decision block .

At decision block it is determined whether another secondary product should be selected. If another secondary product is to be selected the process loops back to step . A retailer may set preferences regarding whether in creating another package offer i the currently selected secondary product s should be deselected and another secondary product selected ii another secondary products should be selected in addition to the currently selected secondary product s or iii the discounted prices for the currently selected secondary products should be decremented. Based on such preferences if at decision block it is determined that another secondary product should not be selected the process continues to decision block .

At decision block it is determined whether at least one of the discounted prices for the products included in the package can be lowered. Such a determination may be made by comparing the discounted price of each product in the package to the minimum price associated with the product. If the discounted price of at least one product is greater than the minimum price for the product then the discounted price can be lowered. The discounted price can be lowered by a predefined dollar amount or percentage such that it is not lower than the minimum price for the product. If at step it is determined that the discounted price for at least one product can be lowered then the process continues to step where the at least one discounted price is lowered. Once the discounted price is lowered the process loops back to step where the package price is once again determined based on the discounted prices of the products included in the package at least one of which has just been lowered. If at decision block it is determined that at least one discounted price cannot be lowered e.g. all discounted prices are set to the associated minimum prices of the corresponding products then the process may loop back to step where another secondary product is selected in addition to or instead of the currently selected secondary product s . Alternatively if at decision block it is determined that at least one discounted price cannot be lowered the process may end.

While this invention has been described in detail with particular reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it should be understood that variations and modifications can be effected within the spirit and scope of the invention. For example it has been described herein that a customer input signal indicating addition of a product to a virtual shopping cart may be interpreted as an expression of interest in a primary product and may trigger the assembly of a package. In an alternate embodiment a new package may be assembled and presented to the customer each time the customer adds a new product to the virtual shopping cart. Each new package may be based on the aggregate contents of the virtual shopping cart. Furthermore the number of products the expected purchase total for all of the products currently in the shopping basket and or the combined profit margin of the products currently in the shopping basket may be used to determine the depth of the discount utilized to calculate the package price. Likewise a new package offer may be assembled and presented to the customer each time the customer removes a product from the virtual shopping cart. Again the new packages may be based on the products remaining in the virtual shopping cart or may be based on the removed product as an enticement to add the removed product back into the virtual shopping cart. In another alternate embodiment the customer may be provided with an opportunity to request a package. A customer request for a package may comprise a request for the retailer to select secondary products for inclusion in a package to be offered at a retailer determined package price. As another example a customer request for a package may comprise a request for a retailer selected package price for a package that is assembled by the customer. In still another example the customer may select the primary product and the secondary products for inclusion in the package as well as a suggested package price. Thus the customer request for the package may comprise a request for retailer approval of the customer assembled package. These and other alternate embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is to be limited only by the appended claims.

