---

title: Mobile network monitoring
abstract: The present description refers in particular to a computer-implemented method, a computer program product and a device for measuring QoS in a mobile network, the method comprising: accessing at least one platform dependent API on a mobile device; obtaining, according to a set of QoS parameters, a first plurality of QoS measurement values from the mobile device by means of the API; and sending the first plurality of QoS measurement values to a first server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08798611&OS=08798611&RS=08798611
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08798611
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20110209
---
The present application relates to a computer implemented method a computer program product and a system for measuring Quality of Service QoS in a mobile network.

This application claims the benefit of European Patent Office EPO Application No. 10 425 032.9 2412 filed on Feb. 12 2010 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A mobile network may be very large in terms of the number of components geographic extent and the number of users. Measuring Quality of Service QoS in a mobile network may facilitate understanding and analysis of the network allow better network planning better user experience and continuous optimization based on e.g. environment evolution.

QoS in a mobile network may be measured from the perspective of an expert such as a teletraffic engineer. This may involve assessing the network to see if it delivers the quality that a network planner intended to target. Certain tools and methods including protocol analysers drive tests and operation and maintenance measurements can be used for QoS measurement. Because of the size of some mobile networks and the sophistication and expense of some of the measurement instruments fully distributed measurement can be difficult.

According to an aspect a computer implemented method of measuring QoS in a mobile network is provided. The method may comprise accessing at least one platform dependent API on a mobile device obtaining according to a set of QoS parameters a first plurality of QoS measurement values from the mobile device by means of the API and sending the first plurality of QoS measurement values to a first server.

In addition the set of QoS parameters may include at least one of the following a cell identifier a received signal strength indication an absolute radio frequency channel number power of a signal on a primary common pilot channel position data obtained using a global navigation satellite system received signal code power and volume of data transmitted and received.

Moreover the method may comprise receiving a first trigger at the mobile device downloading configuration parameters to the mobile device in response to the first trigger and wherein obtaining the first plurality of QoS measurement values is performed under conditions defined by the configuration parameters. The first trigger may be received from the configuration manager.

The first trigger may be an SMS message and the SMS message may include a pointer to a first server. The pointer may be implemented as a URL. Furthermore the method may comprise receiving a second trigger at the mobile device wherein the second trigger includes a second pointer to a second server obtaining according to the set of QoS parameters a second plurality of QoS measurement values from the mobile device by means of the API sending the second plurality of QoS measurement values to the second server.

In some embodiments obtaining the first plurality of QoS measurement values is carried out by monitoring normal usage of the mobile device. In this case a default server may be on specified on the mobile device or a server specified in received configuration parameters may be used.

In some cases the method may further comprise providing an indication of a status of the mobile device to the first server. The indication of the status of the mobile device may include more than 160 bytes of data. This may mean that the indication includes more data than an SMS message can contain.

It may be that when the mobile device includes a Symbian operating system the at least one platform dependent API uses Symbian C when the mobile device includes an Android operating system the at least one platform dependent API uses an Android Java library when the mobile device includes a Windows Mobile operating system the at least one platform dependent API uses C and when the mobile device includes a Blackberry operating system the at least one platform dependent API uses a Blackberry Java library.

In some cases the configuration parameters may comprise a type parameter and wherein the type parameter indicates that the first plurality of QoS measurement values are obtained by measuring QoS for at least one of the following audio calls and video calls. Also the configuration parameters may comprise a sampling frequency and wherein the sampling frequency specifies an amount of time between obtaining a first part of the first plurality of QoS measurement values and a second part of the first plurality of QoS measurement values. The method may further comprise receiving a response to a query of a user of the mobile device wherein the response includes a quality of service perceived by the user and or a characteristic of a location where the mobile device was used obtaining a third plurality of QoS measurement values from the mobile network comparing the first plurality of QoS measurement values the response to the query and the third plurality of QoS measurement values.

According to another aspect a computer program product is provided. The computer program product may comprise computer readable instructions which when loaded and executed on a computer system cause the computer system to perform operations according to the method steps listed above.

According to yet another aspect a device is provided. The device may comprise means for accessing at least one at least one platform dependent API on the device means for obtaining according to a set of QoS parameters a first plurality of QoS measurement values from the mobile device by means of the API and means for sending the first plurality of QoS measurement values to a first server. The device may be configured to perform operations according to the method steps listed above.

Advantageously by obtaining measurements from a mobile device it is possible to measure QoS in a mobile network from the perspective of the users of the network. Obtaining measurements from a mobile device also makes it possible to measure QoS in a distributed manner. Moreover by using a platform dependent API on a mobile device it is possible to measure QoS without using expensive instruments.

A mobile network may be understood as a group of interconnected computers and or mobile devices at least one of which communicates wirelessly. A computer may communicate wirelessly using local area technologies such as Wireless Fidelity WiFi or wide area wireless technologies such as General Packet Radio Service GPRS High Speed Packet Access or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX . Other suitable communication technologies are also possible.

A mobile device may refer to a device in a mobile network capable of wireless communication. Examples of mobile devices are smart phones mobile phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs pagers and other electronic devices that can connect to a mobile network and can be used to transmit and receive data.

An Application Programming Interface API may refer to computer code that supports application access to operating system functionality. A platform dependent API may be understood to rely on the functionality of a particular software platform. Accordingly a program configured to access a platform dependent API on a mobile device using a first software platform might need to access a different platform dependent API on a mobile device using a second software platform. The platform dependent API may use device specific libraries or native code allowing access to the mobile device at a low level.

Normal usage of a mobile device may be understood to include activities performed by a user of the mobile device such as an audio video call or receiving transmitting data e.g. messaging SMS . Normal usage may include typical day to day use of the mobile device.

A Quality of Service QoS parameter may refer to the reliability performance and or usability of a mobile network. Quality of Service may be affected by various human and technical factors. Human factors may include stability of service availability of service delays user information etc. Technical factors may include reliability scalability effectiveness maintainability Grade of Service GOS etc. Metrics that may be used to measure QoS include but are not limited to the coverage accessibility includes GOS and the audio quality of a mobile network. To determine the coverage metric the strength of the signal may be measured. The accessibility metric relates to the ability of the network to handle successful calls from mobile to fixed networks and from mobile to mobile networks. The audio quality metric may be determined by monitoring a successful call for a period of time for the clarity of the communication channel. Other metrics may also be used. A QoS measurement value may be a quantity that corresponds to a QoS measurement parameter. A user agent UA or QoS monitoring agent may be understood as a software application that runs on a mobile device e.g. a software application that obtains QoS measurement values from the mobile device.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as a method or on a device including in the form of one or more computer program products. The subject matter described in the specification can be implemented in a data signal or on a machine readable medium where the medium may be tangible or non transitory and may be embodied in one or more information carriers such as a CD ROM a DVD ROM a semiconductor memory or a hard disk. Such computer program products may cause a data processing apparatus to perform one or more operations described in the specification.

In addition subject matter described in the specification can also be implemented as a system including a processor and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory may store or encode one or more programs to cause the processor to perform one or more of the methods described in the specification when the processor executes the program instructions. Further subject matter described in the specification can be implemented using various machines.

Details of one or more implementations are set forth in the exemplary drawings and description below. Other features will be apparent from the description the drawings and from the claims.

In the following text a detailed description of examples will be given with reference to the drawings. It should be understood that various modifications to the examples may be made. In particular one or more elements of one example may be combined and used in other examples to form new examples.

In some cases the user agent runs in the background on the mobile device . Accordingly in these cases the mobile device should have a multitasking operating system OS e.g. Symbian OS Android OS Blackberry OS i.e. it should be possible to run more than one application at a time.

The user agent may access at least one platform dependent API on the mobile device . Accessing the at least one platform dependent API may include adding a reference in source code to a library that contains the API. For example in the case of the Symbian OS and the S60 software platform the reference in the source code could refer to the etel3rdparty.lib library. Accessing the at least one platform dependent API may further include adding a reference to a header file of the API e.g. for Symbian OS with S60 include .

Adding a reference to the header file may also be referred to as including or importing the API class package. Moreover accessing the at least one platform dependent API may include using a class from the API along with one or more methods of the class. For example with Symbian OS and S60 and the CTelephony class the following code could be used in order to obtain QoS measurement values according to the signal strength RSSI QoS parameter 

The use of only some of these steps or their combination with other steps in order to access a platform dependent API is also possible. QoS measurement values may be obtained under conditions defined by configuration parameters received from the configuration manager . Exemplary configurations parameters defining QoS voice and data measurement campaigns are shown in .

A global navigation satellite system GNSS such as the Global Positioning System GPS or the Galileo Positioning System may be used to obtain a location also referred to as position data of the mobile device . The location obtained from the GPS can be considered a QoS parameter. The value of the location obtained from the GPS at a specific time can be considered a QoS measurement value. It may be useful to correlate other QoS measurement values with GPS location values.

The user agent can be used to measure at least the following QoS parameters as shown in Table 1 Parameters collected by user agent as well as parts thereof 

The BCCH parameters referred to in Table 1 may include a Cell ID Location Area Code LAC Mobile Network Code MNC Mobile Country Code MCC Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI and Uplink Absolute Radio Frequency Channel Number U ARFCN . The broadcast control channel BCCH may be understood as a point to multipoint unidirectional downlink channel used in the Um Interface of a Global System for Mobile communications GSM cellular standard. The BCCH may carry a repeating pattern of system information messages that describe the identity configuration and available features of the base transceiver station BTS . The messages may be implemented as described in GSM Specification 04.08 Sections 9.1.31 9.1.43.

The downlink and uplink power measurements as referred to in Table 1 may include one or more of the following transmitted power of the mobile device Common Pilot Channel CPICH Received Signal Code Power RSCP CPICH EC 10 RSSI Received Signal Level RXLEV and Received Signal Quality RXQUAL . RXLEV indicates the average signal strength received. EC 10 may refer to the portion of the Radio Frequency RF signal which is usable. Thus EC 10 is the difference between the signal strength total power of RF received and the noise floor unusable part of the received signal . Power measurements may be obtained when the mobile device is idle or when the mobile device is connected to the mobile network .

Regarding Table 1 the Mobile Originated Terminated session parameter indicates whether a data session is initiated by the mobile device . The drop session causes parameter may indicate that a session has ended normally or abnormally along with a reason that the session was dropped. Moreover the downlink and uplink data volume and reception transmission time parameter may provide a measure of bandwidth and may not be available for a voice call session. The MOS may not be available for a data session.

In one example using the Symbian Operating System OS and the S60 software platform the failed session causes dropped session causes and handover failure parameters may be obtained using a Telephony API e.g. the CTelephony class in the etel3rdparty Jib library. Accordingly the Telephony API may be configured to provide asynchronous callbacks that are triggered when an error e.g. a failed session occurs. The downlink and uplink power measurements may also be determined using the Telephony API e.g. via synchronous functions called periodically by the user agent . Downlink and uplink transmission rates may be determined by obtaining an amount of Transmission Control Protocol TCP data in bytes transmitted received from a Socket API i.e. RHTTPRequest RHTTPResponse RHTTPSession and RHTTPTransaction classes in the http.lib library. A rate in bytes per second for uplink and downlink transmission may be calculated using an elapsed time in seconds. Measurement values for the GPS parameter may be obtained using a Location API in this example the RPositioner class in the Ibs.lib library. SMS communications may be provided using RSendAs and TSmsUtilities classes in the sendas2.lib smcm gsm.lib smcm cdma.lib library.

In another example using the Android operating system analysis of telephone communication services such as causes of failed sessions dropped sessions handover failure and downlink and uplink power measurements may be performed using APIs from the android.telephony package. Analysis of data communication e.g. calculating uplink and downlink transmission in bytes per second may be performed with APIs from the android.net package. GPS measurements may be obtained using APIs from the android.location package. SMS communications may be provided using APIs from the android.telephony package.

In yet another example using the Blackberry OS analysis of telephone communication services may be performed with APIs from the net.rim.blackberry.api.phone package GPS measurements may be obtained using APIs from the javax.microedition.location package data communication analysis may be performed using APIs from the javax.microedition.io package and SMS communications may be provided using APIs from the javax.wireless.messaging package. Symbian is a trademark of the Symbian foundation Android is a trademark of the Google Corporation and Blackberry is a trademark of Research in Motion.

It may also be possible to obtain QoS measurements from the mobile network using custom network equipment. However such equipment can be expensive. In addition it may also be possible to obtain QoS measurements from the mobile device using platform independent APIs. However with platform independent APIs it may not be possible to achieve the level of precision that can be achieved using platform dependent APIs according to the invention.

Upon receipt of configuration parameters also referred to as configuration settings from the configuration manager the user agent may start monitoring network QoS under conditions defined by the configuration parameters. The mobile device hosting the user agent may be connected to a mobile network or the mobile device may be idle.

The user agent may periodically send logs to a data gathering server . The data gathering server may collect QoS measurement values received from the user agent and possibly other user agents as well. The data gathering server may aggregate data collected from multiple user agents e.g. user agent . The data aggregated by the data gathering server may be further analyzed at the data gathering server or on another possibly dedicated system. Data collected from user agents including user agent may be analyzed alongside data regarding the intended operation of the mobile network and perceived QoS data obtained directly from users. This analysis may provide insight into flaws in the design of mobile network or areas of mobile network that need improvement.

The data gathering server may be configured with an agent interface and an analysis Interface. The agent interface may be implemented as an HTTP interface that allows user agents including user agent to upload measurement data. Measurement data may be uploaded e.g. as a plain text file also referred to as a data file. When a new data file is uploaded to the data gathering server it may be processed and the data may be inserted in a database. The analysis interface may be implemented so that it can be accessed using HTTP. The analysis interface may be used by external systems in order to retrieve QoS measurement values from the data gathering server .

Data from the data gathering server may be analyzed on an analysis server . In particular a cross check may be performed between data measured by user agents including user agent and a map of the mobile network in order to graphically represent QoS measurements on the mobile network .

Although the configuration manager the data gathering server and the analysis server are depicted as separate systems in the functionality of one or more of these servers may be combined on one computer system. In addition functions performed by one of these computer systems may be performed by a different computer system. For example functions performed by the data gathering server may optionally be performed by the configuration manager .

Once the user agent is operational on the mobile device the configuration manager may at step S send a trigger such as an SMS to the user agent . The trigger sent at step S may be sent from the configuration manager to the user agent . The trigger may include a campaign configuration pointer that directs the user agent to a computer from which a campaign configuration can be downloaded. Also the trigger may include a specific sender Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN which the user agent is configured to recognize. The user agent may use the specific MSISDN in the trigger to determine that the trigger contains the campaign configuration pointer. The campaign configuration pointer may be implemented as a URL and may also be referred to as a campaign configuration URL.

A campaign may be understood as one or more tests used to obtain QoS measurement values. An exemplary test could be a call to a particular endpoint or destination telephone number. The campaign configuration may specify configuration parameters of the campaign e.g. a duration and a type e.g. voice or data of campaign. Exemplary campaign configurations are depicted in .

Advantageously the use of the trigger to begin the campaign may make it unnecessary for the user agent to be connected to the configuration manager at all times. Thus the trigger may reduce costs and reduce energy consumption of the mobile device since the device can remain in standby mode until the trigger is received. Use of the trigger may also reduce network load since there is no need for a constant connection to be maintained between the configuration manager and the user agent .

Optionally the trigger may be an SMS message. An advantage of the SMS message implementation may be the possibility to specify the campaign configuration pointer in the SMS message. This may improve fault tolerance since the user agent can be directed to a server that is currently operational. In addition load balancing can be performed using the SMS message. In other words the user agent can be directed to send QoS measurement values to a server that is able to process data from the mobile device efficiently e.g. the load on the server is not too heavy . A second trigger can also be used during a campaign to direct the user agent from a first server to a second server e.g. to migrate from a server that is not operational to a server that is operational or to migrate from a server with a heavy processing load to a server with more available processing capacity. The second trigger may also be implemented as an SMS message. In some cases the second trigger could be sent by the second server i.e. the server with more available processing capacity as an SMS message.

Alternatively it may be a configuration call from the configuration manager to the mobile device . The configuration call may be implemented as a single telephone call. The configuration call may be cheaper than the SMS message however it may not be possible to specify a separate campaign configuration pointer as part of the trigger in this case. Accordingly the user agent may be configured with a default campaign configuration pointer that can be overridden by the SMS trigger or used if the trigger is a single call from the configuration manager . In addition the configuration call can be used to direct the user agent to the appropriate server. For example multiple configuration calls can be made to the user agent in order to perform load balancing and or compensate for a server that is no longer operational.

The user agent may extract the campaign configuration pointer at step S then request a campaign configuration at step S from a server specified in the campaign configuration pointer. The server specified in the campaign configuration pointer may not necessarily be the configuration manager. The user agent receives the campaign configuration at step S. The campaign configuration may include configuration parameters. In addition the campaign configuration may be about 500 bytes.

After the campaign configuration has been received the user agent may begin measuring QoS in the mobile network under conditions defined by the configuration parameters. Measuring QoS according to the campaign configuration may be referred to as a monitoring campaign or monitoring in automatic mode. The user agent may also monitor normal usage of the mobile device by the user also referred to as monitoring in passive mode. Monitoring in passive mode may be performed independently of the campaign configuration or at the same time as monitoring in automatic mode. In some cases monitoring in passive mode may be performed using default i.e. preconfigured configuration parameters. Monitoring in passive mode may be performed for a defined period of time.

Monitoring in passive mode may be particularly useful because usage of the mobile device in practice i.e. by an actual consumer can be analyzed. For example in passive mode it is possible to identify a country class of an MSISDN e.g. the MSISDN is a US telephone number or a particular mobile operator e.g. Vodafone and the call quality associated with the MSISDN or the mobile operator respectively.

Measured data may be sent to the data gathering server at regular intervals and or at the end of the monitoring campaign at step S. Step S may also be described as sending a plurality of QoS measurement values from the user agent to the data gathering server .

QoS measurement values obtained from user agents may be taken in a relatively limited area e.g. when the mobile device is carried by a user who is walking or over wide ranging geographic area e.g. when the mobile device is carried by a user in a car or train. The monitoring campaign may be initiated at an arbitrary time or as part of a schedule including multiple monitoring campaigns.

In addition the user agent may send an indication of a status of the mobile device . The indication of the status of the mobile device may be referred to as a keep alive message. Keep alive messages may be sent during the monitoring campaign or when no monitoring campaign is running. Furthermore the keep alive messages may be used to optimize campaign configuration and device management and to keep the configuration manager informed about the working status of the mobile device as well as the user agent . The keep alive messages may also be sent to another server such as the data gathering server .

Furthermore the keep alive messages may be sent periodically e.g. every 2 hours. The frequency of the keep alive messages may vary depending on whether a monitoring campaign is running. According to one example the keep alive messages may be sent at a specified frequency e.g. every 4 hours during a campaign and less frequently e.g. only once a day when the campaign is not ongoing. The frequency that the keep alive messages are sent can be set from the configuration manager . If no keep alive message is received the configuration manager may be programmed to send an alert notifying an administrator of relevant information regarding the mobile device that failed to send the keep alive message.

According to the example depicted in a timeout may expire at step S. The user agent may create a Packet Data Protocol PDP context for the keep alive message and establish a connection to the configuration manager . At step S the user agent sends the keep alive message to the configuration manager .

Advantageously the keep alive messages from the user agent may be used to build a map including the location of the mobile device corresponding to user agent . According to one example if there are a number of user agents being monitored then the keep alive messages from all the monitored user agents can be used to generate a map of all active user agents. The map can be used for service insurance and service maintenance e.g. as a guarantee that the mobile network is operational.

At step S the user may be queried by one or more screens in a Graphical User Interface GUI in order to determine a perceived QoS and or a characteristic of a location where the mobile device was used. In some cases these values may be obtained at the end of a voice call. Step S may occur after a period of time configured by the configuration manager . The perceived QoS may be a qualitative evaluation obtained by requesting the user to define a measure of perceived quality e.g. by selecting from excellent good fair or poor. Characteristics of the location may define a property of the user s location. Location characteristics may include values such as office city indoor outdoor car railway elevator or a combination of these values. The perceived QoS may also include a quantitative evaluation e.g. a mean opinion score MOS between 1 and 5.

A response to the user query may be useful for configuring the mobile network and or determining areas of the mobile network that could be improved. A perceived throughput may also be measured based on the amount of data exchanged per unit of time possibly depending on bursts of data. Determining perceived QoS may be a cost effective way of measuring QoS in the mobile network . Perceived QoS may also be considered a QoS parameter.

At step S user query data obtained directly from the user and data obtained from the mobile device by the user agent may be sent to the data gathering server . The data obtained directly from the user may be compared with data obtained from the user agent e.g. on the data gathering server . In addition data obtained directly from the user from the user agent and data obtained from the mobile network e.g. a call detail record CDR obtained by a service provider may be compared. The comparison may be both in terms of calls and data services.

The comparison may achieve a synergistic effect since the user query data the user agent data and the mobile network data may be more useful together than any part is individually. The comparison may be particularly useful since each part being compared may provide different results. For example the user query data and the user agent data may provide different results regarding QoS in a particular area of the mobile network. Profiling and data mining may also be performed in order to determine for example Quality of Experience how the user reacts to receiving an SMS and other data.

In a particular example data obtained from the user query can be combined with cell identifier and or GPS information to gain insight into a specific section of the mobile network . Accordingly perceived QoS can be correlated with a geographic location.

At step S data may be sent to the analysis server . In some embodiments a web server may provide a Graphical User Interface GUI accessible by a web browser which allows reports and statistics to be generated based on data uploaded by user agents e.g. user agent . The web server may hosted on the analysis server . The GUI allows operators to compose charts and apply one or more filters to the Quality of Service measurement values collected by the user agent . In particular the following charts and filtered data may be generated 

For each chart an X axis component and the Y axis component could be specified. For example there may be a graph with the Cell ID s on the X axis and the call setup times on the Y axis. Accordingly the setup time may be collected by the user agent e.g. via the Telephony API . The user agent then sends the setup time together with other QoS measurement parameters to the data gathering server . Then the user via the GUI can create a graph showing the call setup time average for each Cell ID. The setup time average may represented as an arithmetical average sum of setup times quantity. In addition to the filters and charts the GUI may allow the selection of a time slot to generate statistics on measurements collected in a specific period of time.

A first campaign has a type indicating a voice campaign. The voice campaign may involve measuring QoS for audio and or video calls. The voice campaign may include multiple voice sessions. A role specifies that the user agent will be the caller. For example the user agent will call the data gathering server . When the user agent is configured in the caller role the user agent will generate voice calls automatically according to the configuration parameters . Alternatively the role could indicate that the user agent will be called. In the alternative the user agent would perform QoS measurements based on calls from the data gathering server to the mobile device . In the present example the role is only applicable to voice campaigns. The type may also be used to indicate a hybrid campaign i.e. a monitoring campaign including both voice and data traffic.

A call indicates a telephone number of a call endpoint for the voice campaign. Furthermore a campaign start and a campaign end respectively indicate the start and end times of the monitoring campaign. The voice campaign may consist of a number of sessions. Each session has a finite duration and involves transmission of data. Accordingly a frequency indicates how often a session is initiated. Thus in the example depicted in the frequency indicates that a session is initiated every 200 seconds. A session duration specifies that each session lasts for 60 seconds. Thus each session involves a call from the mobile device to the call endpoint.

A sampling frequency specifies how often QoS measurement values are obtained by means of the platform dependent API during each session. Thus the sampling frequency depicted in indicates that QoS measurement values are sampled every second. In other words the sampling frequency indicates the frequency and duration of QoS measurements.

A log frequency determines how often logs containing QoS measurement values are forwarded to the data gathering server i.e. every 3600 seconds in the example depicted. Until logs are forwarded to the data gathering server they may be stored on the user agent . Logs may be forwarded to the data gathering server in a variety of ways including WiFi Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS and SMS. Accordingly the platform dependent API may be queried multiple times and multiple QoS measurement values may be obtained before the QoS measurement values are sent to the data gathering server .

A second campaign has a type indicating a data campaign. The data campaign may include multiple data sessions. Accordingly a URL specifies an endpoint URL for the data campaign. In each data session the user agent may create a PDP context and connect to the URL . Thus in the example depicted the campaign consists of 200 sessions starting at 27 Jan. 2010 18 00 00 and ending at 28 Jan. 2010 10 00 00. Each session lasts 10 seconds and each session involves a Hypertext transfer protocol HTTP connection to the endpoint URL http www.company name abc123.com. Identically named tags in the first campaign and the second campaign have identical functions unless otherwise specified.

The exemplary HTTP keep alive message depicted includes an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI and a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN . An error code is provided by the user agent . For example the error code may be one of the following 

A time indicates a time when the most recent error occurred. The time may be expressed in Unix time i.e. as the number of seconds elapsed since midnight proleptic Coordinated Universal Time UTC of Jan. 1 1970 not counting leap seconds. In some embodiments the keep alive message may be sent as an HTTP post request.

A free memory indicates free storage space on the mobile device in bytes. It may be advantageous to track storage space on the mobile device in order to ensure that sufficient storage capacity remains available to store data form the user agent .

A last measure denotes a time when QoS measurement values were most recently obtained. A last measurement day denotes a number of QoS measurements performed by the user agent over the last 24 hours.

The HTTP keep alive message may be advantageous because more data can be included in an HTTP message than in an SMS message or a voice call. The data included in the HTTP keep alive message may be useful for managing the user agent .

The SMS message depicted includes error code time and free memory data. These data elements may have the functionality as described with respect to for the equivalent elements of the HTTP message.

The keep alive message sent from the user agent to the configuration manager may also be implemented as a voice call. The voice call may only include the MSISDN of the caller however the voice call may be cheaper than either the SMS message or the HTTP message.

A field column includes 22 rows of QoS parameters i.e. QoS parameters . A value column includes QoS measurement values corresponding to the QoS parameters listed in the field column . The QoS measurement values listed in the value column may be obtained according to the corresponding QoS parameters listed in the field column by means of at least one platform dependent API on the mobile device .

According to the example depicted an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI corresponds to the mobile device . Furthermore an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI corresponds to a Subscriber Identity Module SIM of the mobile device . A remote party corresponds to the call .

Furthermore a dialling ts specifies a time a voice session was initiated and a dialling ts mills specifies milliseconds corresponding to the dialling ts . In other words the dialing ts and the dialing ts mills specify a time call setup started.

A disconnecting ts indicates a time that the voice session was disconnected and a disconnecting ts mills indicates the milliseconds corresponding to the disconnecting ts . The disconnecting ts and the disconnecting ts mills may be used when a call is dropped. In other words disconnecting ts and disconnecting ts mills indicate when a call ended.

An exit code can provide a reason a call was disconnected e.g. the call was dropped because the mobile device went outside a range administered by a service provider. The exit code may be an abstraction since different mobile device operating systems generally provide different sets of exit codes. Thus it may be helpful to map the exit code to a corresponding description. The exit code may also be a global system for mobile communications GSM specification code. GSM specification codes are defined according to GSM or 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP specifications.

Moreover a direction may correspond to the role and thus indicates whether the mobile device is a caller or the mobile device is being called. A location may be a location area code LAC a Broadcast Channel Control BCCH parameter.

Continuing with the example cell id may identify a radio cell or cell of the mobile network where the mobile device was located between the dialling ts and the disconnecting ts . Accordingly the user agent may be able to identify a cell corresponding to the current location of the mobile device as well as adjacent cells possibly based on information used by the mobile device for making a handover from one cell to another cell. The user agent may also be able to obtain information on cell overlap.

A mode may specify communications information corresponding to the mobile device . Accordingly the mode may indicate a telecommunications technology such as GMS or Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . The mode may also indicate a radio bearer used by the mobile device hosting the user agent . The radio bearer may specify which particular radio technology is used such as GSM UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA or any other mobile communication technology. Furthermore the mode may specify information regarding the radio frequency being used to communicate. The mode may be a number mapped to a corresponding description.

In addition an MCC may specify a Mobile Country Code MCC . For example the QoS measurement value in column corresponding to the MCC is 222 which is the MCC for Italy. An MNC may specify a Mobile Network Code MNC . For example the QoS measurement value in column corresponding to the MNC is 01 which is the MNC for Telecom Italia.

A band may indicate information about a frequency used by the user agent e.g. 900 MHz 1800 MHz or 1900 MHz. The band may also be a mapped value and may be related to the mode .

According to the example a registration status is the characteristic of the mobile device when searching for a mobile network e.g. idle connected unknown registered with service. The registration status can assist in evaluation of processes used by mobile device to connect and or log in to a service provider. In addition the registration status may reflect whether roaming is taking place. If roaming is taking place QoS measurements could be influenced by a roaming partner.

In addition a signal level may correspond to a received signal strength indicator RSSI a BCCH parameter. The signal level is generally expressed as an absolute value e.g. decibel milliwatt dBm . A signal bar may correspond to a number of bars displayed on the mobile device e.g. bars beside an antenna sign on a mobile display. The signal bar generally depends on the specific phone used.

A connected ts and a connected ts mills milliseconds corresponding to connected ts may indicate a time when a call was answered i.e. connected . Subtracting the dialing ts from the connected ts results in a ringing time.

A connected line includes the connected ts and the connected ts mills . Thus lines to may be understood to correspond to the session with the session duration of 60 seconds.

Survey line may include the user query data resulting from a query displayed to user after a monitored connection is ended. Accordingly the survey line may include values for a Mean Opinion Score MOS a perceived quality and or a location characteristic.

A network line may represent a sample of previous QoS measurements values and may include some of the most useful measurement values such as values corresponding to BCCH parameters. In particular the network line may include information about a change of carrier or a cell handoff also referred to as a cell handover . In some embodiments the information in the network line may be tracked or logged for each sample during the session. For example with the sampling frequency of 1 per second i.e. 1 Hz and the session duration of 60 seconds there would a network line for each sample for a total of 60 network lines. A GPS line may include position data e.g. coordinates of the mobile device .

The personal computer may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk not shown and an external disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable disk . The removable disk may be a magnetic disk for a magnetic disk driver or an optical disk such as a CD ROM for an optical disk drive. The hard disk drive and the external disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface and an external disk drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the personal computer . The data structures may include relevant data for the implementation of the method for measuring Quality of Service QoS as described above. The relevant data may be organized in a database for example a relational database management system or a object oriented database management system.

Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a hard disk not shown and an external disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks random access memories read only memories and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk external disk ROM or RAM including an operating system not shown one or more application programs other program modules not shown and program data . The application programs may include at least a part of the functionality as depicted in .

A user may enter commands and information as discussed below into the personal computer through input devices such as keyboard and mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone or other sensors joystick game pad scanner or the like. These and other input devices may be connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus or may be collected by other interfaces such as a parallel port interface game port or a universal serial bus USB . Further information may be printed using printer . The printer and other parallel input output devices may be connected to the processing unit through parallel port interface . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video input output . In addition to the monitor computing environment may include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers or other audible output.

The computing environment may communicate with other electronic devices such as a computer telephone wired or wireless personal digital assistant television or the like. To communicate the computer environment may operate in a networked environment using connections to one or more electronic devices. depicts the computer environment networked with remote computer . The remote computer may be another computing environment such as a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and may include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing environment . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and may particularly be encrypted.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing environment may be connected to the LAN through a network I O . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing environment may include a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN . The modem which may be internal or external to computing environment is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing environment or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device resident on or accessible to remote computer . Furthermore other data relevant to the method for optimization of evaluation of a policy described above may be resident on or accessible via the remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the electronic devices may be used. The above described computing system is only one example of the type of computing system that may be used to implement the method for measuring Quality of Service QoS .

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

