---

title: Persistent visual media player
abstract: An apparatus and method for presenting an embedded visual media player included in a web page in a floating mode is disclosed herein. The status of the embedded visual media player and/or the position of the embedded visual media player relative to the current viewable area of a window are monitored to initiate the floating mode. The floating mode keeps the embedded visual media player within the viewable area while the web page is scrolled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08316300&OS=08316300&RS=08316300
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08316300
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110121
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 893 836 filed on Aug. 16 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 877 687 entitled PERSISTENT VISUAL MEDIA PLAYER which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to display of visual media information. More particularly the present invention relates to user influenced display of visual media information.

In recent years network bandwidth has increased to the point where web pages can include visual media information such as video without presentation of such web pages taking an unduly long time. The advantages of visual media information are numerous. For example visual media information can include moving images and audio information which is a richer format than textual information. Visual media information is also typically provided to the user with user interactive functionalities. The user controls if and when to start stop pause repeat etc. his her viewing of the visual media information. Visual media information and by extension web pages including such information may also attract more potential viewers than web pages containing only textual information. Visual media information may also transcend language barriers.

Visual media information included in a web page is typically provided at a fixed area within the web page. If the entirely of the web page requires a larger viewing area than the browser window then the area with the visual media information can fall outside the browser window depending on the user s interaction with the browser window scroll bar s . Changing the viewing area of the web page is not uncommon given the fact that most web pages also contain other content e.g. textual information at other fixed areas relative to the area for the visual media information.

As the user views the web page and initiates viewing of the visual media information e.g. clicks on the play button icon the user s interest may turn to other content on the same web page. The user could scroll the web page to the extent that the area associated with the visual media information is partially or fully outside the viewing area of the browser window such scrolling action is common for long web pages . However the visual media information continues to play regardless of whether the user is currently able to view such content. By the time the user returns to the area containing the visual media information it may have completed playing. Alternatively the user is required to return to the area associated with the visual media information in order to change the presentation state of the visual media information e.g. to click on the pause or stop button icon . Thus the potential of having visual media information included in a web page is not fully realized because when the visual media information is outside the viewing area of the browser window it is no different from the user s point of view than a web page that does not have visual media information.

One way to maintain the visual media information in a viewable area is to configure the entirety of the web page including the visual media information to fit within the viewable area of the browser window. This may be accomplished either when the web page is created or by the browser at presentation time. Sometimes this approach may not be possible because all of the web page cannot be rendered in the viewable area at once and still be legible.

Another way is to segment the web page into more than one web page and repeat the visual media information in each of the segmented web pages. This approach is likely to involve each segment including a link to the next segment. The downsides to this approach are among others decreasing the user experience by requiring more link clicking and or the lack of continuity in the presentation state of the visual media information among the segmented web pages e.g. if the visual media information played a quarter of the way through in a first segment then the second segment does not start play of the same visual media information at the start of the second quarter point .

Still another way to maintain the visual media information in a viewable area is to provide the visual media information in a separate browser window such as a pop up window. For example a first browser window may contain a web page with content other than the visual media information and a second browser window either automatically or upon user request opens to provide the visual media information. Each browser window typically functions independently of each other and only one window can be in front or be responsive to user commands at any given time. Thus if the user starts to play the visual media information in the second window and then goes to the first window to view content in that window the first window could obscure the second window or the second window may become minimized.

Accordingly it would be beneficial to have a web page that includes visual media information in which the visual media information is persistently viewable by the user for the duration of the presentation of the web page. It would be beneficial for the user to have persistent access to interactive functionalities associated with the visual media information for the duration of the presentation of the web page. It would be beneficial to provide a system and method capable of continually presenting the visual media information within the viewable area of a browser window regardless of the scrolling action by the user. It would be beneficial to provide a system and method capable of dynamically modifying a web page that includes visual media information such that the visual media information may be dynamically positioned relative to other content included in the web page in response to user action.

One aspect of the invention relates to a method for modifying a web page. The method includes transmitting instructions operable to identify a visual media element from the web page and to persistently present the visual media element at a fixed location within a viewable area when the web page is simultaneously presented in the viewable area.

Another aspect of the invention relates to an apparatus for dynamically modifying a web page comprising logic operable to present a web page including an embedded visual media element in a viewable area and monitor a play status of the embedded visual media element included in the web page. The logic is further operable to monitor an out of view status of a portion of the embedded visual media element and present the embedded visual media element at a pre determined portion of the viewable area in response to at least one of the player status and the out of view status.

Still another aspect of the invention relates to a computer program product. The computer program product includes a web page configured to include at least a first content a visual media item and a visual media player. The computer program product further includes a first set of instructions capable of using the visual media item and the visual media player from the web page to generate a floating visual media element for the web page. The computer program product further includes computer readable medium encoded with the web page and the first set of instructions wherein the floating visual media element is operable to persist regardless of a viewing portion of the web page.

Still another aspect of the invention relates to a computer system. The computer system includes a server configured to include a web page having at least a first content a visual media item and a visual media player. The server also includes a first set of instructions capable of using the visual media item and the visual media player from the web page to generate a floating visual media element overlaying at least a portion of the web page. The floating visual media element is capable of persisting regardless of a viewing portion of the web page.

Other features and aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the features in accordance with embodiments of the invention. The summary is not intended to limit the scope of the invention which is defined by the claims attached hereto.

In the drawings to easily identify the discussion of any particular element or art the most significant digit or digits in a reference number refer to the figure number in which that element is first introduced e.g. element is first introduced and discussed with respect to .

The headings provided herein are for convenience only and do not necessarily affect the scope or meaning of the claimed invention.

Described in detail below is an apparatus and method for providing a persistent and floating visual media element in a web page. Visual media item and accompanying visual media player collectively the visual media element included in the web page are floated over the web page in response to the viewer s interaction with the presented web page. When the visual media player is in play mode either automatically upon presentation of the web page or by the viewer s actuation and a portion of the visual media element is or about to fall out of view a persistent or floating visual media player mechanism is operable to identify the visual media element and present it in a fixed position within the viewable area. The resulting floating visual media element stays in the viewable area regardless of scrolling of the web page. The float persistent mode is maintained until a trigger occurs indicating desirability to return to the normal mode. Examples of appropriate triggers include pausing play of the visual media item completed play of the visual media item or a new web page request by the viewer. In response the floating visual media element is returned to the normal page flow of the web page. Accordingly the viewer is able to view any part of the web page and simultaneously view the visual media item and have access to the visual media player control panel without having to wait and or scroll back and forth within the web page.

The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding of and enabling description for embodiments of the invention. However one skilled in the art will understand that the invention may be practiced without these details. In other instances well known structures and functions have not been shown or described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description of the embodiments of the invention.

Referring to a block diagram of one embodiment of a system for providing persistently viewable visual media information is shown. The system includes each of a server a server a database a database a client and a client in communication with a network .

The servers are host servers operable to provide content web pages and or web based applications to each of the clients and via the network . The databases are operable to store data provided by and or used by the servers and or clients . The databases may communicate with any of servers or clients via the network .

Alternatively the servers may include the databases processors switches routers interfaces and or other components and modules. Each of the servers may comprise one or more servers or may be combined into a fewer number of servers than shown depending on computational and or distributed computing environments. The servers may be located at different geographic locations relative to each other. The databases may also be located at different geographic locations relative to each other and to the servers . The databases may be directly connected to the servers . It is contemplated that there may be more or less than two servers more or less than two databases and or more or less than two clients comprising the system . The system may be comprised of multiple interconnected networks such as local area networks and wide area networks.

The client includes a memory a processor an input device and an output device . The client may be a general purpose computer e.g. personal computer . Other computer system configurations including Internet appliances hand held devices wireless devices portable devices wearable computers cellular or mobile phones portable digital assistants PDAs multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics game consoles set top boxes network PCs mini computers and the like may also be implemented as the client . The client includes one or more applications program modules plug ins and or sub routines. As an example the client can include a browser application e.g. Internet Explorer Firefox etc. Abode Flash Player media player e.g. Windows Media Player and a graphical user interface GUI to access web sites web pages or web based applications provided by the servers and data stored in the databases . The client is configured similar to the client . The clients may be remotely located from each other the servers and or the databases .

The network is a communications network such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or the Internet. When the network is a public network security features e.g. VPN SSL secure transport may be included to ensure authorized access within the system .

Referring to a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment for generating a persistent or floating visual media player is illustrated. The flow diagram includes a web page rendering block a play status monitoring block a play mode checking block a different web page request checking block an end block an outside viewable area checking block an embedded player extraction block a reserved area creation block a floating player rendering block a stop mode checking block and a return to normal mode block . The flow diagram of will be discussed in conjunction with representative web pages illustrated in .

At the block a browser application at a client such as the client receives data associated with a web page from a server such as the server and renders the web page in a browser window. The web page includes visual media item and a visual media player. Visual media item comprises but is not limited to video animation slide show graphics video conference feed webcam feed video phone feed or audio player. The visual media player may be any type of player capable of running the visual media item and which provides a control panel for user interactive capabilities such as play stop pause forward reverse fast forward fast reverse etc. Examples of visual media players include Windows Media Player and Real Media Player. The browser application also receives data and or instructions such as computer readable code or instructions to provide the persistent visual media player functionality. Such data and or instructions can be embedded within the requested web page or it can be a stand alone module or plug in. In one embodiment the persistent visual media player functionality is referred to as the persistent or floating visual media player mechanism.

Referring to a representative browser window displaying a web page is illustrated. The browser window may be a window provided at the client . The browser window includes a scroll bar . The scroll bar can be moved up or down to view any portion of the web page . The web page includes at least one visual media item a visual media player and textual information or other textual and or graphical information . The visual media item and the visual media player comprise an element within the web page referred to as a visual media element . The visual media player is packaged together with the visual media item in order to provide viewing control to the person viewing the visual media item . The visual media player in such configuration is also referred to as an embedded player.

In the top portion of the web page is displayed and all parts of the visual media element are within a viewable area of the browser window . Although the web page is illustrated as a single column page it is contemplated that the web page can comprise two or more columns or other page layouts.

After the web page has been rendered the play status of the visual media element is monitored at the block . The additional data and or instructions received from the server are in communication with or hooks into the visual media player to obtain the play status maintained by an Application Programming Interface API . Next at the block and a branch if the visual media player is not in a play or running state then a check is performed to determine whether a different web page has been requested block . If a different web page has been requested yes branch then a persistent visual media player is not needed for the web page block . On the other hand if a different web page has not been requested no branch then monitoring of the play status continues at the block .

If the visual media player is in a play state yes branch then the position of the visual media player relative to the viewable area of the browser window is checked in the block . The visual media player can be in a play state because the viewer of the web page clicked on a play button provided by the visual media player or the web page may be pre configured to start playing or running the visual media item upon rendering of the web page in the browser window .

In the block a check is performed to see if any portion of the visual media element falls or is about to fall outside the viewable area of the browser window . The visual media element can provide its position information to the mechanism or browser application or the mechanism or browser application can be configured to obtain the position information from the visual media element or web page . Alternatively the persistent visual media player functionality can be configured to check the direction of the page scroll and anticipate whether a portion of the visual media element is about to fall outside the viewable area of the browser window . As another alternative the persistent visual media player functionality can be configured to check for a particular portion of the visual media element falling outside the viewable area of the browser window . For example the block may check whether the top edge of the visual media element has or is about to move outside the viewing area of the browser window .

If all portions of the visual media element are within the browser window no branch then checking for a portion of the visual media element outside the viewable area continues at the block . On the other hand if a portion of the visual media element has moved outside the viewing area or moving outside is eminent yes branch then floating the visual media element out of its normal position within the web page begins at the block .

For the web page illustrated in the visual media element is not in play mode e.g. play mode has completed or play mode has not been initiated and the scroll bar is at a lower position compared to the position illustrated in . The viewer is scrolling down to view a lower portion of the web page . As the web page is scrolled the upper portion of the web page including the visual media element starts to fall outside the viewable area of the browser window . When the viewer does not express interest in the visual media element e.g. viewer has not initiated play of the visual media element or the visual media element is inactive e.g. not in play mode then the visual media element is treated the same as the rest of the content comprising the web page including scrolling out of the viewable area based on the position of the scroll bar .

When the status of the visual media player and the position of the visual media element relative to the viewable area of the browser window indicate that the visual media player is playing and a portion of the visual media element has scrolled out of view or is about to scroll out of view the persistent or floating visual media player mechanism modifies the web page so that the visual media element is taken out of the normal page flow and is dynamically overlaid on the web page for continual viewing regardless of the original portion of the web page within the viewable area of the browser window .

At the block the visual media element is extracted from the web page . At the block a new container element e.g. a HTML grouping element is created at a pre determined location within the viewable area and the extracted visual media element is displayed in the newly created container element. The pre determined location comprises a fixed portion of the viewable area such as the top right corner of a size and shape appropriate to match the extracted visual media element . In providing the extracted visual media element at the new location there is no interruption of the existing play status of the visual media element . For example if the visual media element was playing for five seconds before it had or was about to scroll out of view then the extracted visual media element displayed in accordance with the block would not restart play from the beginning of the visual media item . It would continue playing as it had while in the normal page flow.

In an alternative embodiment the blocks and comprise modifying the layout behavior of the visual media element without creating new elements. At the blocks and the positioning of the visual media element or its parent container element if it exists is no longer calculated in relation to the other elements or content of the web page . As such content other than the visual media element continues to reposition as the page scrolls but the visual media element stays fixed in the viewable area typically at the last location before it started to scroll out of view.

For both embodiments the start of the manipulation of the visual media element e.g. block is generally referred to as identification of the visual media element in preparation of persistent presentation. The style associated with the visual media element is changed from existing position coordinates to new fixed position coordinates or programmatically kept at the desired coordinates based on the current scroll position to maintain the visual media element at the new pre determined fixed area in the browser window .

The repositioned visual media element is referred to as a persistent and or floating visual media player or element . Content of the web page that would normally exist where the persistent visual media player is newly positioned is obscured by the persistent visual media player. Another way to conceptualize the element is that it is an opaque layer over the web page such that content underneath is not visible. The persistent state of the player and hiding the web page content underlying the persistent player at any given time are maintained as the viewer scrolls up or down and or otherwise interacts with the web page . All of the control panel functionality of the visual media player also continues to be provided in the persistent visual media player.

The block is optional depending on the original configuration of the web page . If a parent container element already exists in the web page for the visual media element then such parent container element is untouched to prevent changing the layout of the rest of the web page when the visual media element is extracted for re creation or its layout position is changed relative to the rest of the web page . The parent container element serves as a placeholder for the missing visual media element so that the layout of the rest of the web page is maintained. If a parent container element does not exist in the web page for the visual media element then a placeholder container element is created to reserve the space previously occupied by the visual media element . The block may occur simultaneous with the block .

Referring to the web page is illustrated with the top edge of the visual media element about to move out of view. The position of the scroll bar is at a lower position relative to the position of the scroll bar in . Although not shown the visual media element in is in a play state. Thus both conditions for triggering the floating visual media player have occurred. In a persistent or floating visual media element is shown for the web page . The persistent element is the visual media element pulled from the normal page flow of the web page and repositioned to continually float at a pre determined position within the viewable area of the browser window over any existing content. In the pre determined position is the upper right corner of the browser window . The viewer has scrolled down further than in the position of scroll bar is at a lower position relative to the position shown in but the persistent element stays in view. The textual information continues to be displayed although part of the text lines f g h i and j are hidden by the persistent element .

Even if the visual media element is already partially outside the viewable area of the browser window the persistent or floating visual media player mechanism is operable. The web page can switch to float persistent mode even if the viewer initiates play of the embedded player after reading the web page for a while. For example if the viewer has scrolled the web page such that a portion of the embedded player has already scrolled out of view and then the viewer selects the play button on the embedded player then the float persistent mode occurs at that point in time. Referring to the web page is illustrated with the visual media element partially outside the viewable area of the browser window and not in a play state. The position of the scroll bar is at a lower position than shown in . If the viewer then initiates play of the visual media item then both conditions for triggering the floating visual media player are satisfied. Accordingly in the visual media element is illustrated in the float mode with the floating visual media element for the web page . Similar to the persistent element is the visual media element pulled from the normal page flow of the web page and repositioned to continually float at a pre determined position within the viewable area of the browser window over any existing content. The textual information continues to be displayed although part of text lines f g and h are hidden by the persistent element .

It is understood that the pre determined position of the persistent visual media player is not limited to the upper right corner. It can be set at any area within the viewable area of the browser window . In another embodiment rendering the floating player in the block can include resizing the visual media element . Resizing may be preferable for small browser windows such as those in mobile devices assuming that resizing does not make viewing difficult due to shrinkage stretching or resolution issues.

In still another embodiment rendering the floating player in the block includes displaying a minimized floating player e.g. displaying just a portion of the player such as the control panel or a floating icon representative of the player. Since the visual media item is unlikely to be viewable in such minimized icon state the visual media item is also placed in a pause mode in the block . An additional block would exist between blocks and to facilitate viewing the visual media item while in float mode. The viewer indicates a desire to view and or continue playing the visual media item e.g. clicks on the play button or an expand button or hovers the mouse pointer over the minimized icon floating player . In response the minimized icon floating player is replaced by the full size floating player e.g. floating visual media element and play of the visual media item resumes.

Once the persistent visual media player is presented in the browser window the viewer is free to scroll the web page up or down manipulate the control panel of the persistent visual media player and or otherwise interact with the web page without losing the persistent visual media player. In this manner the viewer can view any part of the web page and have full access to the visual media item at the same time. Such functionality is valuable for long web pages such as search result pages blog posts or user profile pages e.g. MySpace or for mobile devices which tend to have small screens and correspondingly small browser windows.

At the block a stop status of the persistent visual media player or the web page is checked to determine whether to continue floating the player or to return the player to the normal web page position. The stop status can comprise any of one or more of pre determined status associated with the persistent visual media player or the web page . Examples of one or more pre determined status includes but is not limited to the viewer clicking on a stop button included in the player control panel the viewer clicking on a pause button included in the player control panel the viewer clicking on a reset button included in the player control panel the viewer clicking on a refresh icon of the browser window to refresh rendering of the web page the viewer clicking on a close icon provided with the floating visual media player the viewer closing the web page the viewer requesting a different web page the visual media item having completed playing or other possible indications.

If an appropriate stop status is detected yes branch then the persistent visual media player is returned to normal mode in the block . The extracted visual media element is returned to the normal page flow to move with the rest of the web page . A snapback animation or other visual effect can accompany the return of the extracted visual media element to the normal page flow. Next if a different web page has not been requested block then monitoring the play status of the visual media player continues block . On the other hand if no appropriate stop status is detected no branch then monitoring for a stop status continues.

Even though the persistent visual media player floats over the web page the persistent visual media player is tied to the web page it is not a separate window such as a pop up window . If for example the web page is closed or refreshed then the persistent visual media player disappears. The persistent visual media player represents enhanced access to existing content provided in a web page by identifying visual media item from the web page in response to specific viewer activity and then floating the extracted visual media item for simultaneous viewing with any part of the web page.

In alternative embodiments of the flow diagram of the block can be configured to trigger identification of the embedded player based on a specific portion of the embedded player being out of view or about to go out of view . For example the specific portion of the embedded player can be the top edge bottom edge left edge right edge or any portion of the embedded player.

Additional block s can exist between blocks and to address particular treatment of the content normally underlying the floating player. Rather than concealing content located in the same area as the floating player the web page can be further modified to display such content while the web page is in the float persistent mode. As an example the content that would otherwise be hidden under the floating player can be pushed down to display below the floating player. illustrates a web page including a left column and a right column . The left column contains similar content as in the web page while the right column includes additional content such as advertisement text and or graphics. A scroll bar is in the same position as shown in . When in the float mode the content in the left column scrolls with the web page but the content of the right column that would otherwise be hidden by a floating visual media element is fully displayed in an area below the floating visual media element . As another example the content that would otherwise be hidden under the floating player can be wrapped around the floating player such that no content is obscured. In the scroll bar is in the same position as shown in . However the normal page flow of the content as shown in is modified to wrap around or be repositioned to only fill the viewable area not occupied by the floating player . Due to the normal page flow of the textual information the content that normally follows the content may also require repositioning.

Additional block s can exist between blocks and to permit user control of the position of the floating player within the browser window. and illustrate the floating player located at the upper right corner of the viewable area of the browser window. Once the floating player has been rendered at the block the viewer may be able to reposition the floating player anywhere in the viewable area. Such repositioning capability is advantageous for example in the embodiment where content normally underlying the floating player is hidden by the floating player and the viewer wishes to view the underlying content without scrolling.

In another embodiment the trigger to initiate the persistent float mode may be a single trigger such as the embedded player being in play state block or a portion of the embedded player being outside or about to be outside the viewable area block . In still another embodiment no trigger may be required. Instead the mechanism is operable to automatically initiate persistent float mode a set time e.g. seconds after the web page has been presented to the viewer. Other than the variations in triggers the remaining functionalities of the mechanism are as discussed above.

Moreover although and illustrate a browser window with a vertical scroll bar the persistent or floating visual media player mechanism is applicable for wide web pages e.g. requiring a horizontal scroll bar and or long web pages e.g. requiring a vertical scroll bar . Referring to a web page is displayed in a browser window . The web page is sufficiently large that both a vertical scroll bar and a horizontal scroll bar are needed to view the entire page. In one embodiment the persistent or floating visual media player mechanism is configured to position a floating player within the browser window such as the upper right corner an upper left corner or a lower right corner . In another embodiment the persistent or floating visual media player mechanism is configured to permit the viewer to change the pre determined position of the floating player for example from the upper right corner default position to the upper left corner the lower right corner or anywhere in the browser window .

In this manner an apparatus and method for providing a persistent and floating visual media element in a web page is disclosed herein. Web page viewing is improved by providing two viewing modes a float persistent mode and a normal mode. The viewing mode is tailored to the viewer s actual interaction with the web page. The trigger s to initiate the float persistent mode and to return to the normal mode are flexible and can be selected to fit the browser application web page and or device rendering the web page. In one embodiment monitoring both the status of the embedded visual media player and the position of the embedded visual media player within the viewable area of the browser window permits the viewer experience in reading the web page to be optimized.

It will be appreciated that the above description for clarity has described embodiments of the invention with reference to different functional units. However it will be apparent that any suitable distribution of functionality between different functional units may be used without detracting from the invention. Hence references to specific functional units are only to be seen as references to suitable means for providing the described functionality rather than indicative of a strict logical or physical structure or organization.

The software modules discussed herein may include script batch or other executable files or combinations and or portions of such files. The software modules may include a computer program or subroutines thereof encoded on computer readable media.

The invention can be implemented in any suitable form including hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Different aspects of the invention may be implemented at least partly as computer software or firmware running on one or more data processors and or digital signal processors. The elements and components of an embodiment of the invention may be physically functionally and logically implemented in any suitable way. Indeed the functionality may be implemented in a single unit in a plurality of units or as part of other functional units. As such the invention may be implemented in a single unit or may be physically and functionally distributed between different units and processors.

One or more sequences of one or more instructions such instructions generally referred to as computer program code or computer executable code which may be grouped into the form of computer programs or other groupings are executable by the server or the client to perform features or functions of embodiments of the present invention. The code may directly cause a processor to perform specified operations be compiled to do so and or be combined with other software hardware and or firmware elements to do so. The terms computer program product computer readable medium and the like may be used generally to refer to media included in for example the server or the client . These and other forms of computer readable media may be involved in storing computer program code or logic for use by the server or the client to perform specified operations.

Moreover although individually listed a plurality of means elements or method steps may be implemented by for example a single unit or processor. Additionally although individual features may be included in different claims these may possibly be advantageously combined and the inclusion in different claims does not imply that a combination of features is not feasible and or advantageous. Also the inclusion of a feature in one category of claims does not imply a limitation to this category but rather the feature may be equally applicable to other claim categories as appropriate.

