---

title: Methods and systems for monitoring a vehicle's energy source
abstract: One or more embodiments may include a method for remotely obtaining information about an energy source of a vehicle. Information identifying one or more vehicles and one or more drivers of the vehicles may be received at one or more computing devices remote from a vehicle. Instructions from the one or more remote computing devices may be transmitted requesting information from the identified vehicle(s) about a status of an energy source for the identified vehicle(s). The status information may be received at the remote computing device(s). Based on the energy source status information and the driver identifying information, a vehicle energy source status with respect to one or more attributes of the vehicle drivers may be calculated. Additionally, the vehicle energy source status may be displayed at the one or more devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849499&OS=08849499&RS=08849499
owner: Ford Global Technologies, LLC
number: 08849499
owner_city: Dearborn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110106
---
Various embodiments relate to remotely monitoring a battery charge of a vehicle. In some embodiments the vehicle may be an electric vehicle. The battery charge may be monitored from a nomadic device and or a personal computer.

The electronics inside vehicles today are more advanced with for example computing systems that can communicate with remote systems sometimes over the Internet. Various OEMs offer software applications that run on a remote device such as a cellphone for exchanging information between a remote device and a vehicle. These applications are available for both electric and non electric vehicles.

For example a mobile application for the CHEVROLET VOLT permits a user to among other things lock and unlock a vehicle obtain information about the electric vehicle such as charge and receive notifications about the vehicle.

One aspect includes a computer implemented method for remotely obtaining information about an energy source of a vehicle. The method may include receiving at one or more computing devices remote from a vehicle information identifying one or more vehicles and one or more drivers of the one or more vehicles.

The method may further include transmitting instructions from the one or more remote computing devices requesting information from the one or more vehicles about a status of an energy source for the identified vehicle. The method additionally includes receiving the information at the one or more remote computing devices.

Based on the energy source status information and the information identifying the one or more drivers a vehicle energy source status with respect to one or more attributes of the vehicle drivers may be calculated at the one or more remote computing devices. The vehicle energy source status may be displayed at the one or more devices.

In some embodiments the method may further include receiving a vehicle charging schedule for automatic charging of the vehicle. The method may additionally include commanding vehicle charging from the one or more remote computing devices based on the vehicle charging schedule. Based on the commanding one or more charging instructions may be transmitted to the vehicle.

Another aspect may include a system for controlling vehicle charging. The system may include one or more computing devices and one or more software applications stored on the one or more computing devices. The software application s may include instructions for receiving a charge status of a vehicle and based on the charge status determining if a charging is needed.

Further instructions may include determining when the charging is needed if a charging is needed. Further instructions may include commanding vehicle charging based on when charging is needed. Additionally based on the commanding further instructions may include transmitting via the one or more computing devices one or more charging instructions to the vehicle.

Another aspect may include a system comprising at least one device configured to receive information identifying a vehicle and vehicle drivers. The at least one device may be further configured to receive information for determining the vehicle energy source status. Further the at least one device may be configured to determine an energy source status with respect to a driver attribute based on the status information and the driver information. The at least one device may be further configured to display the vehicle energy source status.

These and other aspects will be better understood in view of the attached drawings and following detailed description of the invention.

Detailed embodiments of the invention are disclosed herein. However it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of an invention that may be embodied in various and alternative forms. Therefore specific functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a representative basis for the claims and or as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

Additionally the disclosure and arrangement of the figures is non limiting. Accordingly the disclosure and arrangement of the figures may be modified or re arranged to best fit a particular implementation of the various embodiments of the invention.

As will be described in one or more embodiments below one or more devices remote from a vehicle and a data network connection may be used to remotely communicate and exchange information with a vehicle. In some embodiments the vehicle may be an electric vehicle. While the various embodiments are described with respect to the use of a battery energy source for the vehicle other energy storage devices and systems e.g. and without limitation fuel flywheels supercapacitors and other like rechargeable energy storage systems may alternatively or additionally be used without departing from the scope of the invention. The remote device s may be in a home office school library or other like remote location. Typically the remote location may also provide charging capabilities for an electric vehicle. The remote location may or may not be in the same location as the remote device s . Further the remote location may additionally be connected to a network such as the Internet a local area network LAN wide area network WAN and the like.

A plug in electric vehicle PEV may be outfitted with one or more electric battery packs for providing power to the PEV vehicle . The battery pack s may include one or more chargers for capacitive or inductive charging of the battery pack s . In some embodiments the battery pack s may not include the charger .

Electric vehicle EV supply equipment EVSE may be used to charge the vehicle . Charging may be accomplished using the EV supply equipment by plugging in to the battery pack s according to methods known in the art. The EV supply equipment may include a transceiver e.g. a network interface for receiving and transmitting data exchanged with the user terminal s . Further details of this data exchange will be described below.

From one or more user devices which may be at a remote location including but not limited to a home an office a library a school and other like remote locations a user may exchange information with the vehicle . The user device s may be one or more personal computers or one or more nomadic devices including but not limited to mobile phones PDAs personal media players and the like .

The user device s connection to the network for communication with the vehicle infotainment computer VCS may include but is not limited to WiFi WiMax dial up cable modem DSL ZigBee and other like wired and wireless connections. Other like network connections may be used without departing from the scope of the invention. Accordingly the user device s may exchange information with the vehicle over a communication network through a wired or wireless connection. A network may be without limitation the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN powerline carrier communication PLC broadband over power line BPL or combinations of such networks. Other like networks may be used without departing from the scope of the invention.

As will be described below the user device may be configured with one or more software application s having graphical interface. In some embodiments operation of the application s may occur using one or more audible commands. In alternative or additional embodiments the operation may occur with tactile commands.

The vehicle may be outfitted with an on board communication unit for data exchange with the user device . The on board communication unit may include a nomadic device e.g. without limitation a cellular phone which may be used to transmit and receive communications through a cellular network not shown . These communications may be relayed through network . In some embodiments the on board communication unit may additionally or alternatively include a modem not shown for communication over network . As shown in in some non limiting embodiments the on board communications unit may be a vehicle infotainment computer VCS . An example of such a VCS is the SYNC system manufactured by THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY. Further details of the VCS will be described below with respect to .

The on board communications unit OCU may be in communication with a vehicle network that communicates data to various vehicle control modules. Non limiting examples of a vehicle network include an SAE J1850 bus a CAN bus a GMLAN bus and any other vehicle data buses known in the art. As shown in the one or more battery packs may be connected to the vehicle network . Other vehicle modules not shown e.g. powertrain control modules airbag control modules and the like may also be connected to the network . One non limiting example of information exchanged between the vehicle and the user device s may be information about the battery charge. This information may be received by the OCU from the battery via the vehicle network .

Referring back to the user device s the device may be configured with one or more software modules for information exchange with the EV . One non limiting example of such information exchange may relate to a battery charge. Each of these modules may be implemented on the user device s as software. In some embodiments the modules may be on a remote server not shown which may or may not be a third party server. An application programming interface API for interfacing with the modules may or may not be installed on the user device s . While illustrates the modules as separate components for illustration the various embodiments are not limited to this configuration. As a non limiting example the modules may comprise a single software application executing on the user device s or on a remote server. In some embodiments some modules may be executing locally e.g. on the user device s and others on a remote server.

Referring to the specific modules one or more modules may provide mapping navigation information traffic information and or weather information. This information may be stored in one or more mapping traffic weather databases not shown and used by the electric vehicle interface module to exchange trip information with the vehicle . In some embodiments this information may be obtained from a third party source e.g. a mapping service traffic service and or a weather service not shown . This information exchange may occur via data communication including but not limited to data over voice the Internet and the like.

In some embodiments the module may be also be a trip planning module or may communicate with a trip planning module not shown . The algorithms implemented on the trip planning module may factor conditions such as and without limitation traffic road conditions e.g. and without limitation uphill downhill dirt etc. road type e.g. city or highway and weather in order to provide the trip determination. Other non limiting factors may include environment friendly travel and lowering carbon cost e.g. carbon footprint . For example and without limitation the determination may include accounting for inclement weather which may cause the vehicle to use more battery power .

The electric vehicle interface module may be a user interfacing application for information exchange between the user device s and the vehicle . As a non limiting example the module may receive and monitor a battery charge status. As another non limiting example the module may exchange trip information with the vehicle .

The module may communicate via the user device with one or more smart meters from which battery charge information may be obtained. A smart meter may be a device implemented by a utility company that can measure energy consumption by a commercial or residential establishment over a communications network. The smart meters may obtain the charge status from the EV supply equipment by exchanging information with the supply equipment . Accordingly the smart meters may include a network interface for communicating with the EVSE . In some embodiments sub meters not shown may additionally be used for energy usage monitoring.

Battery charge status information may be additionally or alternatively received from the battery via the OCU . In this non limiting embodiment the OCU may be programmed with logic for translating or converting the battery charge information received via the vehicle network to information capable of being processed and interpreted by the module . For example and without limitation a look up table stored on the OCU may be used for performing this conversion. Alternatively or additionally at least part of the conversion translation may be performed on the user device e.g. and without limitation by the module .

An energy usage monitoring module may monitor and report the energy usage of one or more appliances within the remote location e.g. a home or office including the EVSE . The energy usage monitor may obtain usage information from the smart meter the appliances not shown or both. These one or more appliances may be connected on a local area network LAN . In some embodiments the LAN may be a home area network HAN . One example of such a module is the MICROSOFT HOHM application from the MICROSOFT CORPORATION.

In some embodiments the energy usage by some or all appliances at the remote location may be factored into the charge status of the battery. Accordingly a user may unplug some appliances if a faster charge is desired by the user. In some embodiments a user may additionally or alternatively defer usage of some devices. The deferment may or may not be automatically programmed from the user device s . As a non limiting example the user may schedule usage of other appliances based on a battery charge time.

System may be a utility data information system operated by and housed at one or more utility companies. The utility data may be determined by a utility company based on information obtained from one or more utility grids owned and operated by the utility company. The utility data may be stored utility data e.g. and without limitation in a database in the system and received by the module from the system via for example a communication network e.g. and without limitation PLC BPL and the like . In some embodiments the data may be received via the smart meters .

In the illustrative embodiment shown in a processor controls at least some portion of the operation of the vehicle based computing system. Provided within the vehicle the processor allows onboard processing of commands and routines. Further the processor is connected to both non persistent and persistent storage . In this illustrative embodiment the non persistent storage is random access memory RAM and the persistent storage is a hard disk drive HDD or flash memory.

The processor is also provided with a number of different inputs allowing the user to interface with the processor. In this illustrative embodiment a microphone an auxiliary input for input a USB input a GPS input and a BLUETOOTH input are all provided. An input selector is also provided to allow a user to swap between various inputs. Input to both the microphone and the auxiliary connector is converted from analog to digital by a converter before being passed to the processor. Although not shown numerous of the vehicle components and auxiliary components in communication with the VCS may use a vehicle network such as but not limited to a CAN bus to pass data to and from the VCS or components thereof .

Outputs to the system can include but are not limited to a visual display and a speaker or stereo system output. The speaker is connected to an amplifier and receives its signal from the processor through a digital to analog converter . Output can also be made to a remote BLUETOOTH device such as PND or a USB device such as vehicle navigation device along the bi directional data streams shown at and respectively.

In one illustrative embodiment the system uses the BLUETOOTH transceiver to communicate with a user s nomadic device e.g. cell phone smart phone PDA or any other device having wireless remote network connectivity . The nomadic device can then be used to communicate with a network outside the vehicle through for example communication with a cellular tower . In some embodiments tower may be a WiFi access point.

Exemplary communication between the nomadic device and the BLUETOOTH transceiver is represented by signal .

Pairing a nomadic device and the BLUETOOTH transceiver can be instructed through a button or similar input. Accordingly the CPU is instructed that the onboard BLUETOOTH transceiver will be paired with a BLUETOOTH transceiver in a nomadic device.

Data may be communicated between CPU and network utilizing for example a data plan data over voice or DTMF tones associated with nomadic device . Alternatively it may be desirable to include an onboard modem having antenna in order to communicate data between CPU and network over the voice band. The nomadic device can then be used to communicate with a network outside the vehicle through for example communication with a cellular tower . In some embodiments the modem may establish communication with the tower for communicating with network . As a non limiting example modem may be a USB cellular modem and communication may be cellular communication.

In one illustrative embodiment the processor is provided with an operating system including an API to communicate with modem application software. The modem application software may access an embedded module or firmware on the BLUETOOTH transceiver to complete wireless communication with a remote BLUETOOTH transceiver such as that found in a nomadic device .

In another embodiment nomadic device includes a modem for voice band or broadband data communication. In the data over voice embodiment a technique known as frequency division multiplexing may be implemented when the owner of the nomadic device can talk over the device while data is being transferred. At other times when the owner is not using the device the data transfer can use the whole bandwidth 300 Hz to 3.4 kHz in one example .

If the user has a data plan associated with the nomadic device it is possible that the data plan allows for broad band transmission and the system could use a much wider bandwidth speeding up data transfer . In still another embodiment nomadic device is replaced with a cellular communication device not shown that is installed to vehicle . In yet another embodiment the ND may be a wireless local area network LAN device capable of communication over for example and without limitation an 802.11g network i.e. WiFi or a WiMax network.

In one embodiment incoming data can be passed through the nomadic device via a data over voice or data plan through the onboard BLUETOOTH transceiver and into the vehicle s internal processor . In the case of certain temporary data for example the data can be stored on the HDD or other storage media until such time as the data is no longer needed.

Additional sources that may interface with the vehicle include a personal navigation device having for example a USB connection and or an antenna a vehicle navigation device having a USB or other connection an onboard GPS device or remote navigation system not shown having connectivity to network .

Further the CPU could be in communication with a variety of other auxiliary devices . These devices can be connected through a wireless or wired connection. Auxiliary device may include but are not limited to personal media players wireless health devices portable computers and the like.

Also or alternatively the CPU could be connected to a vehicle based wireless router using for example a WiFi transceiver. This could allow the CPU to connect to remote networks in range of the local router .

In some embodiments the vehicle owner s may register and establish authorized users during the registration process. In this case identification information may be provided for the authorized user s including but not limited to a name mobile identification number e.g. a phone number and an electronic serial number ESN . This information along with information about the vehicle owner may be stored in a database of user information not shown . In some embodiments an override feature for user identification may permit a non vehicle owner use of the system without authorization from the vehicle user.

If a vehicle owner s is registered the owner s may alternatively log in for system use block . In some embodiments the log in information may be stored in memory obviating a need for a user to input log in information.

The application may be operated after the application is started block . The application may be started in response to a user input command e.g. tactile and or verbal . In some embodiments the application may be started after registration and or login.

One or more instructions for vehicle information may be commanded from the application block . The instruction s may be verbal and or tactile commands based on instructions presented to the user at the user device s . The instructions may be presented on a display e.g. in the form of menus icons links etc. and or presented in a spoken language. Alternatively or additionally the instruction s may be triggered automatically by the application at predetermined time intervals e.g. based on minutes hours days or combinations and or variations thereof .

Non limiting examples of such instructions may include obtaining information about vehicle battery charge including but not limited to a battery charging status battery charge life and information on scheduled charges scheduling charge times starting a vehicle charge obtaining vehicle analytics including but not limited to analytics relating to battery charge driving financial cost savings and environmental cost savings obtaining maintenance information e.g. maintenance needed or next scheduled maintenance obtaining information on the condition of the vehicle e.g. odometer reading tire pressure battery performance battery health and the like and obtaining charge station information.

In some embodiments the application may also enable remote control of vehicle components including but not limited to vehicle start door lock and unlock radio control HVAC control e.g. and without limitation preconditioning the vehicle using power from a utility grid rather than the battery window control and the like. Additional details and non limiting examples of the vehicle command s are described below with respect to .

In some instances remotely controlling one or more vehicle controls may optimize the use of a vehicle s charge by for example enabling greater distance range. As a non limiting example preconditioning the vehicle while the vehicle is charging e.g. pre heating and or pre cooling the vehicle may use energy from the energy grid rather than the vehicle battery. Accordingly more battery charge may be available for driving.

The instruction s may be transmitted from the user device s to the VCS in the vehicle via network . In some embodiments the instruction s may be transmitted via a centralized system not shown in communicating with the VCS and the user device s . In some embodiments the centralized system may be one or more servers. The server system may include processing capability for incoming signals from the user device s designated to interact with the vehicle .

For example the server s may include an automated call server and or web host. Further the server s may route an incoming signal from the user device s to the appropriate remote vehicle. Data sent in this fashion may be sent using data over voice a data plan or in any other suitable format. Once the server s receive the incoming data request from the user device s the message may be processed and or relayed to the vehicle . The vehicle may be identified by a header associated with one or more incoming data packets or may be identifiable based on a database lookup for example. The relay to the vehicle may be sent out from the server s through a network e.g. without limitation a cellular network the internet etc. and to the vehicle .

A response may be received at the user device s from the VCS for the one or more instruction s block . The response may be based on information obtained from the vehicle modules and received by the VCS via the vehicle network . The path followed by the response to the user device s may be a reverse path of the data path described above.

The response to the instruction s may be presented at the user device s . As a non limiting example the status of a vehicle battery charge may be output in response to a request for the battery charge status.

The one or more instruction s for information about the vehicle may be received by or from the module block . One non limiting example of instructions may be to receive vehicle identification information block . The identification information may be a vehicle name a vehicle number and or vehicle owner identification information. As a non limiting example the identification information may be Mike s EV. In some embodiments the identification information may be stored in memory such that the identification information for the vehicle is automatically presented.

In the case that identification information is requested a lookup identifier may be received block by the application from memory of the user device s or a remote device if the application is saved on the remote device . The look up identifier may be used to look up and obtain identification information from a database storing vehicle identification information block . In some embodiments the database may be a part of the centralized system. The look up identifier may be for example and without limitation a vehicle identification number VIN or a user device identification number.

The vehicle identification information may be presented on the user device display. In some embodiments the information may be displayed at or near the top or bottom of the user device screen display e.g. as a header or a footer .

Additionally or alternatively a location of the vehicle may be obtained by the module block . Based on GPS coordinates of the vehicle block the vehicle location may be determined and received by the module block . In some embodiments the module may use reverse geocoding to determine a vehicle s location. In other embodiments the location of the vehicle may be determined from a database lookup using the GPS coordinates. Other methods may be used without departing from the scope of the inventions.

An additional or alternative information request may be a charge status of the vehicle battery block . A charge status may be include but is not limited to the current charge of the battery one or more notifications that the battery is not charging e.g. the vehicle is unplugged notification s that the vehicle has reached a minimum critical charge point and or a charging status during a battery charge. The request for charge status may be transmitted from the application to the VCS block as described above. The battery charge information may be obtained from the battery via the vehicle network and transmitted for receipt at the user device by the application block . This information exchange may occur through network . In alternative embodiments the charge status information may be received from the EVSE . In some embodiments the charge status may be automatically monitored and received at predetermined intervals of time e.g. based on minutes hours days or combinations and or variations thereof .

In some embodiments the charge status during a battery charge may include information on the length of time for fully charging the battery. The information may be updated in real time or near real time. Additionally or alternatively the information may be automatically or manually updated periodically e.g. based on units of time .

In some embodiments the charge status may include a notification as to whether a user can reach a destination or complete roundtrip travel on the current charge of the battery. In this case the user may input the distance of travel or the destination s e.g. an address POI name and the like .

Any or all of the information received by the module may be presented at the user device block . The presentation of the vehicle information may include numbers text characters graphics or a combination of numbers texts characters and graphics. As one non limiting example the vehicle identification information and location may be presented as text and the vehicle charge status may be represented by a battery and a charge level on the battery. The current charge status whether or not during a battery charge event may additionally or alternatively and without limitation be presented as a percentage or a numerical value. In some embodiments the charge status information may be presented in an e mail or a text message.

In some embodiments the vehicle information may be updated and therefore the process for obtaining vehicle information may be repeated. The updates may be performed automatically on a periodic basis and or manually in response to user input.

A charging schedule may be generated in which charging may occur automatically based on one or more occurrences. These occurrences may be defined as time based occurrences e.g. immediately daily weekly on weekends on particular days of the week or combinations thereof and or charge based occurrences. Non limiting and non exhaustive examples of charge based occurrences are illustrated and described with respect to . While not illustrated in it will be appreciated that the charge based and time based occurrences may be used together.

Instructions for the next charge may be commanded from the module block . A charge based occurrence may be based on a distance to empty DTE of the vehicle s battery block . A charge may be scheduled when the battery charge is actually or near empty. As a non limiting example a charge may be scheduled when the DTE may be at or near zero miles. Additionally or alternatively the DTE may be defined by a distance threshold such that for example falling below the threshold a charge may be scheduled.

In some embodiments a charge may be scheduled when the DTE may be exceeded based on one or more driver attributes such as historical driving behaviors and or a travel distance provided by the user. The historical driving behaviors may be stored in memory of the vehicle or on one or more servers. The travel distance provided by the user maybe input as an actual or estimated distance or as a destination from which the distance may be extrapolated .

The DTE that may trigger a vehicle battery charge may be dynamic based on the historical driving patterns and or travel distance. As a non limiting example based on the battery charge if the DTE is 100 miles but the travel distance is a total of 105 miles the next charge may be scheduled to occur at the next possible charging opportunity. However if the travel distance is 50 miles a vehicle charge may be scheduled later. While the examples use mileage as a measure of distance other measures may be used including but not limited to kilometers.

Using the DTE a determination of charge status with respect to the distance threshold may be determined and a notification of the next charge provided. As a non limiting example if the charge in the battery is above the threshold block within the threshold block or below the threshold block a notification of the next charge may be presented block . In some embodiments when the charge is below a distance threshold a warning may additionally be presented block .

In some embodiments an identifier may be presented of whether the charge is above within or below the distance threshold. The identifier may be a color graphic text characters numbers or combinations of identifiers.

An additional notification may include a present maximum range of distance block . In some embodiments the maximum distance range may be included with a notification of the next charge block .

In some embodiments the maximum distance range may be based on the user s historical driving behavior block . The driving behavior may also influence when to perform the next charge or charge status information. Of course the illustration of driving behavior s used as part of the determination in is for purposes of providing a comprehensive illustration and not to limit the various embodiments of the invention.

The historical driving behavior may be stored in vehicle memory or on one or more servers. For example and without limitation information may be stored after every vehicle drive. As a non limiting example information about the vehicle drive may be stored at key off. Each driver may be associated with an identifier such as and without limitation a vehicle key identifier or a user identifier which may be stored with the historical driving information. Using this association the driver s driving behavior may be retrieved. Non limiting examples of driving behavior may include distance driven e.g. on a period basis such as daily weekly monthly etc. and driving habits such as hard braking terrain on which the vehicle is driven speed etc. .

Based on the charge status of the vehicle battery the next charge may be determined block . The next charge information may presented at the user device s block .

In some embodiments the user may override a scheduled charge or immediately charge the vehicle notwithstanding a scheduled charge. As such the user may elect to charge the vehicle immediately block . In this case the user may instruct from the user device s that a charge may commence block . The instructions may be transmitted to the vehicle as described above. As represented by circle block A and illustrated in the charge status during the vehicle charge may be obtained and presented at the user device s .

Driver analytics may be provided at the user device s relating to for example a driver s use of the vehicle. As non limiting non exhaustive examples analytic information may relate to fuel savings cost savings battery usage information e.g. battery usage per mile and total amount used carbon savings driving style and distance driven. The analytics may be measured and stored daily weekly monthly yearly and variations thereof. Additionally or alternatively the analytics may be measured and stored each time the vehicle is driven.

In some embodiments the driving analytics may also include a score of the driver s driving habits. These scores may relate to for examples a braking score and an overall driving score. In some embodiments the analytics may also include information about each vehicle charge including but not limited to charge location the amount filled charging time and cost.

The driver analytics may be analytics recorded stored for a predetermined amount of time. For example the analytics may be based on 30 days of driving. Of course the period of time is non limiting and provided for illustration.

The unit of measurement for the driver analytics may be the charge cycle. Each trip may be measured from when the vehicle is unplugged to when it is plugged in again. Each charge may be measured tracked based on the vehicle being plugged in. In some embodiments each charge may be measured tracked based on a complete charge.

Instructions for driving analytics may be issued from the module block . A driver may be identified based on a vehicle key identifier or a user identifier. This identifying information for each driver may be input and stored by the vehicle owner or other drivers of the vehicle.

The driving behaviors for the vehicle driver may be obtained block for the type of analytic s requested block . In some embodiments the type of analytic s request may be determined based on the instructions issued from the module block . The analytic s may be presented at the user device s block .

As one non limiting example analytics relating to the driving style of the driver with respect to battery charge may be provided. For example the driving style may be characterized as zippy e.g. using more battery charge or zen e.g. using less battery charge . The analytics may report that by driving more zen the driver may obtain greater mileage out of a battery charge as compared to driving zippy. 

In some embodiments based on the recorded driving behaviors the driving achievements by the driver may be presented to the driver. These achievements may be based on reaching particular goals which may be defined by the OEM or the user. As a non limiting example the driver may be notified of the first time the driver reaches 75 miles on a single charge. In at least one embodiment the driver may be rewarded by the OEM for the driving achievements and the driver may be notified of the reward.

In some embodiments the analytics for a driver may be compared with analytics for other vehicle drivers. These other drivers maybe drivers of the same vehicle or drivers of other vehicles. The analytics of all drivers may be stored on a remote computing system which e.g. may be owned and operated by an OEM . Drivers may be compared to select other drivers e.g. based on user selection of other drivers a geographic area type of vehicle age gender and other like criteria or all drivers.

In some embodiments the analytics may relate to comparing the use of an electric vehicle to a non electric or gas powered vehicle. The comparison may be made to gas powered vehicles owned by the driver. In this case the driver may provide the information on the non electric vehicles owned e.g. type of vehicle mileage automatic or manual transmission and the like .

In some embodiments driving suggestions may be provided at the user device s based on a user request e.g. through an audible and or tactile input block . These suggestions for driving may relate to for example suggestions for optimizing use of the battery charge environmentally friendly driving and others. If requested the driving suggestion s may be presented at the user device s block .

While exemplary embodiments are illustrated and described above it is not intended that these embodiments illustrate and describe all possibilities. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

