---

title: Communications system providing mobile wireless communications device application module associations for respective wireless communications formats and related methods
abstract: A communications system may include a plurality of electronic devices having respective different device types and each configured to wirelessly communicate via a plurality of different wireless communications formats. The system may also include a mobile wireless communications device including a plurality of application modules associated with respective electronic device types and configured to communicate via a first one of the wireless communications formats. The mobile wireless communications device may further include a control module configured to establish an initial wireless communications link with a given electronic device using a second one of the wireless communications formats, determine a respective device type for the given electronic device based upon the established initial wireless communications link, and cause a respective application module to establish a subsequent wireless communications link with the given electronic device using the second wireless communications format based upon the determined respective device type.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08358596&OS=08358596&RS=08358596
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08358596
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20110214
---
This application is based upon prior filed provisional application Ser. No. 61 384 573 filed Sep. 20 2010 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application relates to the field of wireless communications and more particularly to wireless communications devices and related methods.

Mobile communication systems continue to grow in popularity and have become an integral part of both personal and business communications. Various mobile devices now incorporate Personal Digital Assistant PDA features such as calendars address books task lists calculators memo and writing programs media players games etc. These multi function devices usually allow electronic mail email messages to be sent and received wirelessly as well as access the Internet via a cellular network and or a wireless local area network WLAN for example.

Some mobile devices incorporate contactless card technology and or near field communication NFC chips. NFC technology is used for contactless short range communications based on radio frequency identification RFID standards using magnetic field induction to enable communication between electronic devices including mobile wireless communications devices. These short range communications include payment and ticketing electronic keys identification device set up service and similar information sharing. This short range high frequency wireless communications technology exchanges data between devices over a short distance such as only a few centimeters.

The present description is made with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments are shown. However many different embodiments may be used and thus the description should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete.

Generally speaking a communications system is provided herein which may include a plurality of electronic devices having respective different device types and each electronic device may be configured to wirelessly communicate via a plurality of different wireless communications formats. The communications system may also include a mobile wireless communications device comprising a plurality of application modules associated with respective electronic device types and configured to communicate via a first one of the wireless communications formats. The mobile wireless communications device may further include a control module configured to establish an initial wireless communications link with a given electronic device using a second one of the wireless communications formats determine a respective device type for the given electronic device based upon the established initial wireless communications link and cause a respective application module to establish a subsequent wireless communications link with the given electronic device using the second wireless communications format based upon the determined respective device type. Accordingly enhanced efficiencies of wireless communication handovers between different communications formats may be achieved for example.

By way of example the second wireless communications format may comprise a near field communication NFC format while the first wireless communications format may comprise a Bluetooth format a wireless local area network WLAN format a cellular communications format etc. Moreover the application modules may be further configured to register respective electronic device types with the control module. Also the plurality of application modules may comprise at least one of an image application module a video application module an audio module an Internet browser module etc.

A mobile wireless communication device such as the one described briefly above and a related communications method are also provided. The method may include establishing an initial wireless communications link between a mobile wireless communications device and a given electronic device where the mobile wireless communication device comprises a plurality of application modules associated with respective electronic device types and configured to communicate via a first one of the wireless communications formats. The initial wireless communications link may be established using a second one of the wireless communications formats. The method may further include determining a respective device type for the given electronic device based upon the established initial wireless communications link and establishing a subsequent wireless communications link between a respective application module and the given electronic device using the second wireless communications format based upon the determined respective device type.

A related computer readable medium for a mobile wireless communication device is also provided. The computer readable medium may have computer executable instruction modules comprising a plurality of application modules associated with respective electronic device types and configured to communicate via a first one of the wireless communications formats and a control module. The control module may be configured to establish an initial wireless communications link with a given electronic device using a second one of the wireless communications formats determine a respective device type for the given electronic device based upon the established initial wireless communications link and cause a respective application module to establish a subsequent wireless communications link with the given electronic device using the second wireless communications format based upon the determined respective device type.

Referring initially to a communications system and related method aspects are first described. The system illustratively includes a plurality of electronic devices having respective different device types and each electronic device is configured to wirelessly communicate via a plurality of different wireless communications formats. By way of example the electronic devices may be of different types such as media e.g. video audio etc. players displays gaming devices telephones point of sale POS terminals etc. Moreover the electronic devices may be implemented as portable or mobile devices as well as stationary devices in different embodiments.

Also by way of example the different wireless communications formats standards or protocols may include a near field communication NFC format a Bluetooth format a wireless local area network WLAN format a cellular communications format etc. By way of background NFC is a short range wireless communications technology in which NFC enabled devices are swiped bumped or otherwise moved in close proximity to communicate. In one non limiting example implementation NFC may operate at 13.56 MHz and with an effective range of about 10 cm but other suitable versions of near field communication which may have different operating frequencies effective ranges etc. for example may also be used.

Beginning at Block the communications system also illustratively includes a mobile wireless communications device which comprises a plurality of application modules that are associated with respective electronic device types here types A B or C at Block . Moreover the application modules are configured to communicate via a first one of the wireless communications formats. For the present example Bluetooth will be used as the first wireless communications format but other formats such as those described above may also be used. Also by way of example the application modules may comprise media application modules such as for images videos audio or a combination thereof. Other application modules may include Internet browser modules document processing modules social networking modules electronic commerce modules etc. The application modules may also be considered as mobile software applications or apps from the device manufacturer or third party developers which take the form of software modules comprising computer executable instructions stored on a computer readable medium. Example types of mobile wireless communications devices may include portable or personal media players e.g. MP3 players video players etc. remote controls e.g. television or stereo remotes etc. portable gaming devices portable or mobile telephones smartphones tablet computers etc.

By way of example the application modules may be associated with respective electronic device types by registration. That is the application modules may be further configured to register respective electronic device types with a control module of the mobile wireless communications device such as upon installation for example as will be discussed further in the accompanying Appendix A.

The control module may be configured to establish an initial wireless communications link with a given electronic device using a second one of the wireless communications formats Block which for the present example is NFC although other formats may also be used in different embodiments. Thus for example upon swiping or bumping the mobile wireless communications device with the electronic device these devices establish an NFC communications link therebetween. Upon establishing of this link the control module determines a respective device type for the given electronic device based upon the established initial NFC wireless communications link at Block and causes a respective application module to establish a subsequent wireless communications link with the given electronic device using the second wireless communications format e.g. Bluetooth in the present example based upon the determined respective device type.

In one example use case the given electronic device may comprise a POS terminal such as at a retail store and the application module may comprise an electronic payment application module e.g. a PayPal app Visa app American Express app etc. . Upon swiping or bumping of the mobile wireless communications device with the POS terminal the control module may alert the electronic payment application module of the POS terminal so that the electronic payment application module may initiate or otherwise establish a Bluetooth or other connection with the POS terminal to complete an electronic payment operation.

The various operations or functions of the control module described herein may be implemented as part of an example application programming interface API . An example API for a BlackBerry mobile device architecture from Research In Motion Limited RIM is provided below although it will be appreciated that the various elements and operations described herein may be used with other mobile device architectures as well.

Example components of a mobile wireless communications device that may be used in accordance with the above described embodiments are further described below with reference to . The device illustratively includes a housing a keyboard or keypad and an output device . The output device shown is a display which may comprise a full graphic LCD. Other types of output devices may alternatively be utilized. A processing device is contained within the housing and is coupled between the keypad and the display . The processing device controls the operation of the display as well as the overall operation of the mobile device in response to actuation of keys on the keypad .

The housing may be elongated vertically or may take on other sizes and shapes including clamshell housing structures . The keypad may include a mode selection key or other hardware or software for switching between text entry and telephony entry.

In addition to the processing device other parts of the mobile device are shown schematically in . These include a communications subsystem a short range communications subsystem the keypad and the display along with other input output devices and as well as memory devices and various other device subsystems . The mobile device may comprise a two way RF communications device having data and optionally voice communications capabilities. In addition the mobile device may have the capability to communicate with other computer systems via the Internet.

Operating system software executed by the processing device is stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory but may be stored in other types of memory devices such as a read only memory ROM or similar storage element. In addition system software specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the random access memory RAM . Communications signals received by the mobile device may also be stored in the RAM .

The processing device in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications A N on the device . A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations such as data and voice communications A and B may be installed on the device during manufacture. In addition a personal information manager PIM application may be installed during manufacture. The PIM may be capable of organizing and managing data items such as e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. The PIM application may also be capable of sending and receiving data items via a wireless network . The PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with corresponding data items stored or associated with a host computer system.

Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through the communications subsystem and possibly through the short range communications subsystem. The communications subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and one or more antennas and . In addition the communications subsystem also includes a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP and local oscillators LOs . The specific design and implementation of the communications subsystem is dependent upon the communications network in which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device may include a communications subsystem designed to operate with the Mobitex Data TAC or General Packet Radio Service GPRS mobile data communications networks and also designed to operate with any of a variety of voice communications networks such as AMPS TDMA CDMA WCDMA PCS GSM EDGE etc. Other types of data and voice networks both separate and integrated may also be utilized with the mobile device . The mobile device may also be compliant with other communications standards such as 3GSM 3GPP UMTS 4G etc.

Network access requirements vary depending upon the type of communication system. For example in the Mobitex and DataTAC networks mobile devices are registered on the network using a unique personal identification number or PIN associated with each device. In GPRS networks however network access is associated with a subscriber or user of a device. A GPRS device therefore typically involves use of a subscriber identity module commonly referred to as a SIM card in order to operate on a GPRS network.

When required network registration or activation procedures have been completed the mobile device may send and receive communications signals over the communication network . Signals received from the communications network by the antenna are routed to the receiver which provides for signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. and may also provide analog to digital conversion. Analog to digital conversion of the received signal allows the DSP to perform more complex communications functions such as demodulation and decoding. In a similar manner signals to be transmitted to the network are processed e.g. modulated and encoded by the DSP and are then provided to the transmitter for digital to analog conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the communication network or networks via the antenna .

In addition to processing communications signals the DSP provides for control of the receiver and the transmitter . For example gains applied to communications signals in the receiver and transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In a data communications mode a received signal such as a text message or web page download is processed by the communications subsystem and is input to the processing device . The received signal is then further processed by the processing device for an output to the display or alternatively to some other auxiliary I O device . A device may also be used to compose data items such as e mail messages using the keypad and or some other auxiliary I O device such as a touchpad a rocker switch a thumb wheel or some other type of input device. The composed data items may then be transmitted over the communications network via the communications subsystem .

In a voice communications mode overall operation of the device is substantially similar to the data communications mode except that received signals are output to a speaker and signals for transmission are generated by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the device . In addition the display may also be utilized in voice communications mode for example to display the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The short range communications subsystem enables communication between the mobile device and other proximate systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components a Bluetooth communications module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices or a near field communications NFC sensor for communicating with a NFC device or NFC tag via NFC communications.

Many modifications and other embodiments will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that various modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

