---

title: Devices and methods for searching data on data sources associated with registered applications
abstract: A mobile device includes a memory to store an unregistered application and corresponding unregistered application data which is unable to be searched, and a registered application and corresponding registered application data that is able to be searched. The mobile device also has a processor to convert the unregistered application and the unregistered application data to a newly registered application and newly registered application data which is able to be searched, and search the registered application data and the newly registered application data for a search term to determine whether the registered application and the newly registered application have search results associated therewith. The processor also displays applications having search results associated therewith on an application selection screen on a display, with a subset of information about the search results being displayed, and receives selection of an application via an input device. The processor also executes the selected application to present the search results on the display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09104721&OS=09104721&RS=09104721
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09104721
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20110215
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to claiming priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 304 665 filed Feb. 15 2010 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 327 342 filed Apr. 23 2010.

The content of the above patent application is hereby expressly incorporated by reference into the detailed description hereof.

The present invention relates to the field of mobile wireless communications systems and more particularly to methods of searching data on mobile wireless communications devices and related methods.

Mobile communication systems continue to grow in popularity and have become an integral part of both personal and business communications. Various mobile devices now incorporate Personal Digital Assistant PDA features such as calendars address books task lists calculators memo and writing programs media players games etc. These multi function devices also allow users to send and receive electronic mail email messages wirelessly and access the Internet via a cellular network and or a wireless local area network WLAN for example. In addition these devices may allow users to send Short Messaging Service SMS messages Personal Identification Number PIN messages and instant messages.

Given the amount of information now stored on a mobile device itself and the amount of data remotely accessible by the mobile device a user may wish to search for a specific e mail media file or contact for example. To facilitate this some applications that reside on a mobile device may permit users to search data managed by those applications and stored locally on the mobile device. For example a messaging application may permit a user to search the contents of e mail messages or text messages stored on the device so that the user may locate messages containing a particular keyword. Other types of applications may also provide search capabilities. For example a media player application that manages audio files e.g. music files stored on the device may permit a user to search information associated with music files so that the user may find songs with a title or artist name containing a particular keyword. As a further example an application used to manage photos stored on the device may permit a user to search photo descriptions for a particular keyword.

The present description is made with reference to the accompanying drawings in which example embodiments are shown. However many different example embodiments may be used and thus the description should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein. Rather these example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout and prime notation is used to indicate similar elements or steps in alternative embodiments.

Generally speaking a mobile wireless communications device also referred to herein as a mobile device may include a display and a memory configured to store at least one unregistered application and corresponding unregistered application data which is unable to be searched and to store at least one registered application and corresponding registered application data that is able to be searched. The mobile wireless communications device may also include at least one input device and a processor coupled to said display said memory and said at least one input device. The processor may be configured to convert the at least one unregistered application and the associated unregistered application data to at least one newly registered application and associated newly registered application data which is able to be searched. The processor may also be configured to search the registered application data and the newly registered application data for a search term to determine whether each of the at least one registered application and the at least one newly registered application have search results associated therewith and display applications having search results associated therewith on an application selection screen on said display with a subset of information about the search results being displayed. The processor may be further configured to receive selection of an application via the at least one input device and execute the selected application to thereby present the search results on the display.

This mobile wireless communications device usefully allows the registering of applications therefore verifying that they will function properly and can be searched properly before the search function can search the applications. Allowing the search of an unregistered application might result in poor search results or a device malfunction.

The processor may also be configured to convert the at least one unregistered application and the associated unregistered application data based upon receipt of a registration prompt via said at least one input device. In addition the processor may be configured to also permit the at least one registered application to access the newly registered application data of the at least one newly registered application.

In some applications the processor may permit the at least one registered application to access the newly registered application data based upon access control privileges associated with the newly registered application. Additionally the processor may be configured to permit the at least one registered application to access external application data for the at least one newly registered application and stored on an external server.

The processor may be further configured to present a search bar on said display based upon an input received from said at least one input device during display of the application selection screen and to receive entry of the search term into the search bar via said at least one input device. The processor may also be configured to present the applications having search results associated therewith on said display by displaying respective icons representing the applications on said display and by presenting an indication of a quantity of search results for each icon adjacent thereto. In some applications the processor may also be configured to present a web search icon with the search results and to search at least one associated web site for the search term based upon selection of the web search icon.

The memory may also be configured to store an Internet enabled application having application data associated therewith stored on an external server and the processor may also configured to present an icon for the Internet enabled application on the application selection screen. The processor may therefore be configured to search the external server for the search term via execution of the Internet enabled application based upon selection of the icon for the Internet enabled application. The Internet enabled application may comprise one of music streaming application and a social networking application.

A method aspect is directed to a method of searching using a mobile wireless communications device comprising a processor coupled to a display at least one input device and a memory. The method may include storing at least one unregistered application and corresponding unregistered application data which is unable to be searched and to storing at least one registered application and corresponding registered application data that is able to be searched in the memory. The method may also include converting the at least one unregistered application and the associated unregistered application data to at least one newly registered application and associated newly registered application data which is able to be searched using the processor.

The method may further include searching the registered application data and the newly registered application data for a search term to determine whether each of the at least one registered application and the at least one newly registered application have search results associated therewith using the processor and displaying applications having search results associated therewith on an application selection screen on the display with a subset of information about the search results being displayed. The method may additionally include receiving selection of an application via the at least one input device and executing the selected application to thereby present the search results on the display using the processor.

Some embodiments of the systems and methods described herein make reference to a mobile device. A mobile device may be a two way communication device with advanced data communication capabilities having the capability to communicate with other computer systems. A mobile device may also include the capability for voice communications. Depending on the functionality provided by a mobile device it may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a cellular telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance or a data communication device with or without telephony capabilities for example. A mobile device may communicate with other devices through a network of transceiver stations.

With initial reference to a mobile wireless communications device is now described. The mobile wireless communications device comprises a housing carrying a processor memory display wireless transceiver and input device . The memory display wireless transceiver and input device are coupled to the processor .

The wireless transceiver may be a cellular transceiver and may be configured to perform both voice and data cellular communications. The wireless transceiver may also have other wireless communications capability such as WiFi and Bluetooth. The input device may be a keyboard touch sensitive pad trackball thumbwheel button microphone or other suitable device for example. It should be appreciated that in some applications the display may be a touch sensitive display and may therefore serve as the input device .

The memory may include both volatile and non volatile portions and is configured to store at least one unregistered application and corresponding unregistered application data. The memory is also configured to store at least one registered application and corresponding registered application data. The applications may be any sort of applications include a messaging application a contacts application a calendar application a notes application and a media player application for example. When an application is successfully registered it indicates that the application is fully compatible with other software executed by the processor such as an operating system having search functionality and that the data for that registered application may be searched. Registration may also include a verification that the application is authorized by the manufacturer of the mobile wireless communications device or that certain access control privileges are set.

The processor is configured to convert the at least one unregistered application and associated unregistered application data to at least one newly registered application and associated newly registered application which is able to search. As will be explained below the registration may be in response to user input and or further in response to verification with an external registration server.

The processor then searches the registered application data and the newly registered application data for a search term to determine whether each of the at least one registered application and the at least one newly registered application have search results associated therewith. The search term may be any combination of numbers letters and symbols and may therefore include words and phrases as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of suitable searching algorithms may be used to perform this search.

The processor displays applications having search results associated therewith on a main application selection screen or home screen on the display with a subset of information about the search results being displayed. This application selection screen presents icons representing at least some of the applications stored in the memory along with labels associated with those applications. An example application selection screen showing applications having search results associated therewith is shown in .

The processor receives selection of an application via the input device and executes the selected application to thereby present the search results on the display . This mobile wireless communications device usefully allows the registration of applications to help ensure that the applications searched are fully compatible with the device and that a user would like those applications to be searchable. In addition this mobile wireless communications usefully allows the presentation of a variety of search results of different types in an organized fashion on a single search results screen. This helps to decrease the amount of time a user spends looking through the search results for a proper entry or entries.

With reference to the flowchart of a method of searching the mobile wireless communications device is now described. After the start Block a search bar is presented on the display based upon an input received from the input device during display of the application selection screen Block . Entry of a search term is received into the search bar based upon the input device Block .

At least one unregistered application and corresponding unregistered application data which is unable to be searched is stored in the memory Block . At least one registered application and corresponding application data which is able to be searched is also stored in the memory also Block .

The at least one unregistered application and the associated unregistered application data is then converted into at least one newly registered application and associated newly registered application which is able to be searched based upon receipt of a registration prompt via the input device Block . The registration prompt may be a simple prompt to register or not register the application or may also include options to set a variety of application access control privileges as will be appreciated by those of skill in the art.

Next the registered application data and the newly registered application data are searched for the search term to thereby determine whether each of the at least one registered application and the at least one newly registered application have search results associated therewith Block . Thereafter applications having search results associated therewith are displayed on the application selection screen with a subset of information about the search results being displayed by displaying respective icons representing the applications on the display and by displaying an indication of a quantity of search results for each icon adjacent thereto Block . This is shown in for example where an icon and label for the messages application is displayed and 143 is displayed adjacent to the label for the messages application icon indicating that there are 143 search results for the search term from among the application data stored for the messages application.

Selection of an application is received via the input device Block . The selected application is then executed to thereby present the search results on the display Block . In addition the at least one registered application is permitted to access the newly registered application data based upon access control privileges associated with the newly registered application Block . Thus registered applications may access each other s application data during execution.

In addition the at least one registered application is permitted to access external application data for the at least one newly registered application that is stored on an external server Block . The external server may be a multimedia server or social networking server for example. Block indicates the end of the method.

Additional features are now described with reference to the flowchart shown in . An Internet enabled application such as a music streaming application or social networking application having application data associated therewith stored on an external server is stored in the memory Block . An icon for the Internet enabled application is presented on the application selection screen Block . The external server is searched for the search term via execution of the Internet enabled application based upon selection of the icon for the Internet enabled application Block . This feature provides users with a quick and easy way to extend a search outside of the data stored on the mobile wireless communications device without requiring an exit of the search results screen execution of an Internet enabled application and subsequent manual entry of the search term into a search function of the Internet enabled application as is typical in the prior art.

Referring first to a block diagram of a mobile device which can be used to implement example embodiments disclosed herein is shown generally as . Mobile device comprises a number of components the controlling component being microprocessor . Microprocessor controls the overall operation of mobile device . Communication functions including data and voice communications may be performed through communication subsystem . Communication subsystem may be configured to receive messages from and send messages to a wireless network . In one example implementation of mobile device communication subsystem may be configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards may be supplemented or superseded eventually by Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS and Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB etc. New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments of the present disclosure are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting communication subsystem with network may represent one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels may be capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Although the wireless network associated with mobile device is a GSM GPRS wireless network in one example implementation of mobile device other wireless networks may also be associated with mobile device in variant implementations. Different types of wireless networks that may be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks as mentioned above and future third generation 3G networks like EDGE and UMTS. Some older examples of data centric networks include the Mobitex Radio Network and the DataTAC Radio Network. Examples of older voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems. Other network communication technologies that may be employed include for example Integrated Digital Enhanced Network iDEN Evolution Data Optimized EV DO and High Speed Packet Access HSPA etc.

Microprocessor may also interact with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM flash memory display auxiliary input output I O subsystem serial port keyboard speaker microphone camera unit short range communications subsystem and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of mobile device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example display and keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over network as well as device resident functions such as a calculator or task list. Operating system software used by microprocessor is typically stored in a persistent store such as flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will understand that the operating system specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as RAM .

Mobile device may send and receive communication signals over network after network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of a mobile device . To identify a subscriber mobile device may provide for a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card or e.g. USIM for UMTS or CSIM or RUIM for CDMA to be inserted in a SIM interface in order to communicate with a network. SIM may be one example type of a conventional smart card used to identify a subscriber of mobile device and to personalize the mobile device among other things. Without SIM mobile device may not be fully operational for communication with network . By inserting SIM into SIM interface a subscriber may access all subscribed services. Services may include without limitation web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services may include without limitation point of sale field service and sales force automation. SIM may include a processor and memory for storing information. Once SIM is inserted in SIM interface it may be coupled to microprocessor . In order to identify the subscriber SIM may contain some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . By using SIM a subscriber may not necessarily be bound by any single physical mobile device. SIM may store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including date book or calendar information and recent call information.

Mobile device may be a battery powered device and may comprise a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . Battery interface may be coupled to a regulator not shown which assists battery in providing power V to mobile device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide power to mobile device . In some embodiments mobile device may be solar powered.

Microprocessor in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications on mobile device . A set of applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications may be installed on mobile device during its manufacture. Another application that may be loaded onto mobile device is a personal information manager PIM . A PIM may have functionality to organize and manage data items of interest to a subscriber such as but not limited to e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application may have the ability to send and receive data items via wireless network . PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via wireless network with the mobile device subscriber s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system. This functionality may create a mirrored host computer on mobile device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous where the host computer system is the mobile device subscriber s office computer system.

Additional applications may also be loaded onto mobile device through network auxiliary I O subsystem serial port short range communications subsystem or any other suitable subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using mobile device .

Applications may be stored in a memory or other storage on or coupled to mobile device such as flash memory for example. The applications may include for example a universal search module the operation of which will be explained in more detail below. Data managed by applications may also be stored in a memory or other storage on or coupled to mobile device such as flash memory for example. The data may stored in for example a data structure or other data store for storing data that identifies applications that have registered with the universal search module as will be explained in more detail below.

Serial port may enable a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extend the capabilities of mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto mobile device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

Short range communications subsystem may provide for communication between mobile device and different systems or devices without the use of network . For example subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards Wi F developed by IEEE.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download may be processed by communication subsystem and input to microprocessor . Microprocessor then processes the received signal for output to display or alternatively to auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using keyboard in conjunction with display and possibly auxiliary I O subsystem . Auxiliary subsystem may include devices such as a touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. Keyboard may comprise an alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad for example. Keyboard may include a physical keyboard or a virtual or soft keyboard implemented for example by way of images of keys rendered on a touch screen. A composed item may be transmitted over network through communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of mobile device may be substantially similar except that the received signals may be processed and output to speaker and signals for transmission may be generated by microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output may be accomplished primarily through speaker display may also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Referring now to a block diagram of the communication subsystem component of is shown. Communication subsystem may comprise a receiver a transmitter one or more embedded or internal antenna elements Local Oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a Digital Signal Processor DSP .

The particular design of communication subsystem may be dependent upon the network in which mobile device is intended to operate thus it should be understood that the design illustrated in serves only as one example. Signals received by antenna through network are input to receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding by DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over network via antenna . DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in receiver and transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in DSP .

The wireless link between mobile device and a network may contain one or more different channels typically different RF channels and associated protocols used between mobile device and network . A RF channel is generally a limited resource typically due to limits in overall bandwidth and limited battery power of mobile device .

When mobile device is fully operational transmitter may be typically keyed or turned on only when it is sending to network and may otherwise be turned off to conserve resources. Similarly receiver may be periodically turned off to conserve power until it is needed to receive signals or information if at all during designated time periods.

Referring now to a block diagram of a node of a wireless network is shown as . In practice network comprises one or more nodes . Mobile device communicates with a node within wireless network . In the example implementation of node is configured in accordance with GPRS and GSM technologies however in other embodiments different standards may be implemented as discussed in more detail above. Node includes a base station controller BSC with an associated tower station a Packet Control Unit PCU added for GPRS support in GSM a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Home Location Register HLR a Visitor Location Registry VLR a Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP server . This list of components is not meant to be an exhaustive list of the components of every node within a GSM GPRS network but rather a list of components that are commonly used in communications through network .

In a GSM network MSC is coupled to BSC and to a landline network such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN to satisfy circuit switched requirements. The connection through PCU SGSN and GGSN to the public or private network Internet also referred to herein generally as a shared network infrastructure represents the data path for GPRS capable mobile devices. In a GSM network extended with GPRS capabilities BSC may also contain a Packet Control Unit PCU that connects to SGSN to control segmentation radio channel allocation and to satisfy packet switched requirements. To track mobile device location and availability for both circuit switched and packet switched management HLR may be shared between MSC and SGSN . Access to VLR may be controlled by MSC .

Station may be a fixed transceiver station. Station and BSC together may form the fixed transceiver equipment. The fixed transceiver equipment provides wireless network coverage for a particular coverage area commonly referred to as a cell . The fixed transceiver equipment transmits communication signals to and receives communication signals from mobile devices within its cell via station . The fixed transceiver equipment normally performs such functions as modulation and possibly encoding and or encryption of signals to be transmitted to the mobile device in accordance with particular usually predetermined communication protocols and parameters under control of its controller. The fixed transceiver equipment similarly demodulates and possibly decodes and decrypts if necessary any communication signals received from mobile device within its cell. Communication protocols and parameters may vary between different nodes. For example one node may employ a different modulation scheme and operate at different frequencies than other nodes.

For all mobile devices registered with a specific network permanent configuration data such as a user profile may be stored in HLR . HLR may also contain location information for each registered mobile device and can be queried to determine the current location of a mobile device. MSC may be responsible for a group of location areas and may store the data of the mobile devices currently in its area of responsibility in VLR . Further VLR may also contain information on mobile devices that are visiting other networks. The information in VLR may include part of the permanent mobile device data transmitted from HLR to VLR for faster access. By moving additional information from a remote HLR node to VLR the amount of traffic between these nodes can be reduced so that voice and data services can be provided with faster response times while requiring less use of computing resources.

SGSN and GGSN are elements that may be added for GPRS support namely packet switched data support within GSM. SGSN and MSC may have similar responsibilities within wireless network by keeping track of the location of each mobile device . SGSN also performs security functions and access control for data traffic on network . GGSN may provide internetworking connections with external packet switched networks and connect to one or more SGSNs via an Internet Protocol IP backbone network operated within the network . During normal operations a given mobile device may perform a GPRS Attach to acquire an IP address and to access data services. This normally is not present in circuit switched voice channels as Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN addresses may be generally used for routing incoming and outgoing calls. Currently GPRS capable networks may use private dynamically assigned IP addresses using a DHCP server connected to the GGSN . There are many mechanisms for dynamic IP assignment including the use of a combination of a Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server and a DHCP server for example. Once the GPRS Attach is complete a logical connection may be established from a mobile device through PCU and SGSN to an Access Point Node APN within GGSN for example. The APN may represent a logical end of an IP tunnel that can either access direct Internet compatible services or private network connections. The APN may also represent a security mechanism for network insofar as each mobile device is assigned to one or more APNs and mobile devices cannot generally exchange data without first performing a GPRS Attach to an APN that it has been authorized to use. The APN may be considered to be similar to an Internet domain name such as myconnection.wireless.com .

Once the GPRS Attach is complete a tunnel may be created and all traffic exchanged within standard IP packets using any protocol that can be supported in IP packets. This may include tunneling methods such as IP over IP as in the case with some IPSecurity IPsec connections used with Virtual Private Networks VPN . These tunnels are also referred to as Packet Data Protocol PDP Contexts and there may be a limited number of these available in the network . To maximize use of the PDP Contexts network will run an idle timer for each PDP Context to determine if there is a lack of activity. When a mobile device is not using its PDP Context the PDP Context may be deallocated and the IP address returned to the IP address pool managed by DHCP server .

Referring now to a block diagram illustrating components of a host system in one example configuration is shown. Host system will typically be a corporate office or other local area network LAN but may instead be a home office computer or some other private system for example in variant implementations. In this example shown in host system is depicted as a LAN of an organization to which a user of mobile device belongs.

LAN comprises a number of network components connected to each other by LAN connections . For instance a user s desktop computing device desktop computer with an accompanying cradle for the user s mobile device may be situated on LAN . Cradle for mobile device may be coupled to computer by a serial or a Universal Serial Bus USB connection for example. Other user computers are also situated on LAN and each may or may not be equipped with an accompanying cradle for a mobile device. Cradle facilitates the loading of information e.g. PIM data private symmetric encryption keys to facilitate secure communications between mobile device and LAN from user computer to mobile device and may be particularly useful for bulk information updates often performed when initializing mobile device for use. The information downloaded to mobile device may include Secure Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions S MIME certificates or Pretty Good Privacy PGP keys used in the exchange of messages for example.

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that user computers will typically be also connected to other peripheral devices not explicitly shown in . Furthermore only a subset of network components of LAN are shown in for ease of exposition and it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that LAN will comprise additional components not explicitly shown in for this example configuration. More generally LAN may represent a smaller part of a larger network not shown of the organization and may comprise different components and or be arranged in different topologies than that shown in the example of .

In this example mobile device communicates with LAN through a node of wireless network and a shared network infrastructure such as a service provider network or the public Internet. Access to LAN may be provided through one or more routers not shown and computing devices of LAN may operate from behind a firewall or proxy server .

In a variant implementation LAN comprises a wireless VPN router not shown to facilitate data exchange between the LAN and mobile device . The concept of a wireless VPN router is new in the wireless industry and implies that a VPN connection can be established directly through a specific wireless network to mobile device . The possibility of using a wireless VPN router has only recently been available and could be used when the new Internet Protocol IP Version 6 IPV6 arrives into IP based wireless networks. This new protocol may provide enough IP addresses to dedicate an IP address to every mobile device making it possible to push information to a mobile device at any time. An advantage of using a wireless VPN router is that it could be an off the shelf VPN component not requiring a separate wireless gateway and separate wireless infrastructure to be used. A VPN connection may include for example a Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection to deliver the messages directly to mobile device in this variant implementation.

Messages intended for a user of mobile device may be initially received by a message server of LAN . Such messages may originate from any of a number of sources. For instance a message may have been sent by a sender from a computer within LAN from a different mobile device not shown connected to wireless network or to a different wireless network or from a different computing device or other device capable of sending messages via the shared network infrastructure and possibly through an application service provider ASP or Internet service provider ISP for example.

Message server typically acts as the primary interface for the exchange of messages particularly e mail messages within the organization and over the shared network infrastructure . Each user in the organization that has been set up to send and receive messages is typically associated with a user account managed by message server . In some implementations LAN may comprise multiple message servers . Message server may also be configured to provide additional functions beyond message management including the management of data associated with calendars and task lists for example.

When messages are received by message server they are typically stored in a message store not explicitly shown from which messages can be subsequently retrieved and delivered to users. For instance an e mail client application operating on a user s computer may request the e mail messages associated with that user s account stored on message server . These messages may then typically be retrieved from message server and stored locally on computer

When operating mobile device the user may wish to have e mail messages retrieved for delivery to the mobile device . An e mail client application operating on mobile device may request messages associated with the user s account from message server . The e mail client may be configured either by the user or by an administrator possibly in accordance with an organization s information technology IT policy to make this request at the direction of the user at some pre defined time interval or upon the occurrence of some pre defined event. In some implementations mobile device is assigned its own e mail address and messages addressed specifically to mobile device may be automatically redirected to mobile device as the message server receives those messages.

To facilitate the wireless communication of messages and message related data between mobile device and components of LAN a number of wireless communications support components may be provided. In this example implementation wireless communications support components may comprise a message management server for example. Message management server may be used to specifically provide support for the management of messages such as e mail messages that are to be handled by mobile devices. Generally while messages are still stored on message server message management server may be used to control when if and how messages should be sent to mobile device . Message management server may also facilitate the handling of messages composed on mobile device that are sent to message server for subsequent delivery.

For example message management server may monitor the user s mailbox e.g. the message store associated with the user s account on message server for new e mail messages apply user definable filters to new messages to determine if and how the messages will be relayed to the user s mobile device compress and encrypt new messages e.g. using an encryption technique such as Data Encryption Standard DES or Triple DES and push them to mobile device via the shared network infrastructure and wireless network and receive messages composed on mobile device e.g. encrypted using Triple DES decrypt and decompress the composed messages re format the composed messages if desired so that they will appear to have originated from the user s computer and re route the composed messages to message server for delivery.

Certain properties or restrictions associated with messages that are to be sent from and or received by mobile device can be defined e.g. by an administrator in accordance with IT policy and enforced by message management server . These may include whether mobile device is permitted to receive encrypted and or signed messages minimum encryption key sizes whether outgoing messages must be encrypted and or signed and whether copies of all secure messages sent from mobile device are to be sent to a pre defined copy address for example.

Message management server may also be configured to provide other control functions such as only pushing certain message information or pre defined portions e.g. blocks of a message stored on message server to mobile device . For example when a message is initially retrieved by mobile device from message server message management server is configured to push only the first part of a message to mobile device with the part being of a pre defined size e.g. 2 KB . The user can then request more of the message to be delivered in similar sized blocks by message management server to mobile device possibly up to a maximum pre defined message size.

Accordingly message management server may facilitate better control over the type of data and the amount of data that is communicated to mobile device and can help to minimize potential waste of bandwidth or other resources.

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that message management server need not be implemented on a separate physical server in LAN or other network. For example some or all of the functions associated with message management server may be integrated with message server or some other server in LAN . Furthermore LAN may comprise multiple message management servers particularly in variant implementations where a large number of mobile devices are supported.

Standard e mail security protocols typically facilitate secure message transmission between non mobile computing devices e.g. computers of remote desktop devices . In order that signed messages received from senders may be read from mobile device and that encrypted messages be sent from mobile device mobile device may be configured to store public keys e.g. in S MIME certificates PGP keys of other individuals. Keys stored on a user s computer may be downloaded from computer to mobile device through cradle for example.

Mobile device may also be configured to store the private key of a public key private key pair associated with the user so that the user of mobile device can sign outgoing messages composed on mobile device and decrypt messages sent to the user encrypted with the user s public key. The private key may be downloaded to mobile device from the user s computer through cradle for example. The private key may be exchanged between the computer and mobile device so that the user may share one identity and one method for accessing messages.

User computers can obtain S MIME certificates and PGP keys from a number of sources for storage on computers and or mobile devices e.g. mobile device in a key store for example. The sources of these certificates and keys may be private e.g. dedicated for use within an organization or public may reside locally or remotely and may be accessible from within an organization s private network or through the Internet for example. In the example shown in multiple public key infrastructure PKI servers associated with the organization reside on LAN . PKI servers may include a certificate authority CA server that may be used for issuing S MIME certificates a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP server that may be used to search for and download S MIME certificates and or PGP keys e.g. for individuals within the organization and an Online Certificate Status Protocol OCSP server that may be used to verify the revocation status of S MIME certificates for example.

Certificates and or PGP keys may be retrieved from LDAP server by a user computer for example to be downloaded to mobile device via cradle . However in a variant implementation LDAP server may be accessed directly i.e. over the air in this context by mobile device and mobile device may search for and retrieve individual certificates and PGP keys through a mobile data server . Similarly mobile data server may be configured to allow mobile device to directly query OCSP server to verify the revocation status of S MIME certificates.

In variant implementations only selected PKI servers may be made accessible to mobile devices e.g. allowing certificates to be downloaded only from a user s computer while allowing the revocation status of certificates to be checked from mobile device .

In variant implementations certain PKI servers may be made accessible only to mobile devices registered to particular users as specified by an IT administrator possibly in accordance with an IT policy for example.

Other sources of S MIME certificates and PGP keys not shown may include a Windows certificate or key store another secure certificate or key store on or outside LAN and smart cards for example.

As noted above microprocessor in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications on mobile device . These software applications typically include applications that control basic device operations and may also include a wide range of other applications that have been loaded onto mobile device . The types of applications that can be supported by mobile device can vary widely and may include without limitation messaging applications e.g. e mail messaging text messaging instant messaging media applications e.g. video players media streaming picture editing or photo management applications audio players contact management applications calendar applications and so on. Each application may manage data that is stored for example directly on mobile device e.g. in flash memory . Alternatively the data may be stored on some storage device or memory coupled to mobile device either by data cable or wirelessly. Some applications may be pre loaded onto the mobile device so that they are available for use by a user of mobile device upon his or her acquisition of the device while other applications may be loaded onto mobile device at some later time.

An application that has been loaded on mobile device may permit users to search data managed by that application. In order to perform the search a user may need to open that application and select a search option from a menu for example to initiate the search of the data managed by the application.

In accordance with one broad aspect a universal search module e.g. universal search module of is provided. In operation a microprocessor of a mobile device e.g. microprocessor of mobile device of executes instructions of the universal search module which implements a search engine that facilitates a search of data made available by each of multiple applications. A search term is received from a user via a user interface provided by the universal search module and subsequently a search of data from multiple data sources based on that search term can be performed with results being presented to the user via the user interface as search result data in some format.

The universal search module may allow data managed by any of a variety of applications which do not need to appear closely related to be contemporaneously searched. For example a keyword or a subset of characters in the keyword can form the basis of a search of not only message data stored on the mobile device being managed by a messaging application but also song titles and artist names that have been associated with audio files stored on the mobile device. The user need not open separate applications in order to search data being managed by each different application which may enhance user convenience.

In accordance with another broad aspect the microprocessor is configured to initiate searches not only of data stored on the mobile device but also data originating from external or off device sources. In at least one embodiment data retrieved from the external data sources may be indexed and stored on the mobile device to facilitate more efficient searching in subsequent searches.

Accordingly the microprocessor may be configured to search both local sources of data i.e. data already stored on the mobile device and data originating from external sources contemporaneously in response to a search initiated by a user through the user interface of the universal search module. This may increase usability and user flexibility as the breadth of the searches being performed can significantly increase.

In accordance with another broad aspect the microprocessor is configured to allow searching by category. Each category may be potentially associated with a plurality of e.g. third party external data sources for example. For example the universal search module may be configured to allow users to perform searches corresponding with one or more of the following categories by way of illustration and without limitation web site searches using web search engines searches of data managed by social networks news searches web messaging searches media retail site searches map website searches coupon searches and others. In some embodiments the search by category may also cause local e.g. on device data sources to be searched in addition to or alternatively to the external data sources.

In at least one embodiment the user may be permitted to define user preferences to specify one or more preferred sources for searching a specific content type e.g. to specify a particular search engine as the preferred source when a web search is to be performed or to specify a particular map website as the preferred source when a map search is to be performed . This allows a user to customize in advance the external data source s and in some embodiments possibly one or more local data sources to be searched by default when a search by category is subsequently performed.

In accordance with another broad aspect the universal search module provides an application programming interface API that is made accessible to the various software applications executing on mobile device . This API allows applications e.g. applications associated with local data sources applications associated with external data sources or both to interact with the universal search module so that the data provided by the respective data sources may be made available for searching.

In at least one embodiment the mobile device is configured to allow applications which have not been pre loaded on the device to be downloaded to the mobile device e.g. via the shared network infrastructure of . These applications may be associated with one or more external sources of data and may be configured to make data available to the universal search module for searching. In at least one embodiment an application associated with at least one external data source may be permitted to register with the universal search module so that the external source s of data can be searched in response to a search initiated by a user through the user interface of the universal search module.

These and other aspects and features of various embodiments will be described in greater detail below.

Reference is now made to in which a flowchart illustrating acts of a method of searching data is shown generally as in accordance with at least one embodiment.

In at least one embodiment at least some of the acts of method are performed by a processor e.g. microprocessor of executing instructions of an application e.g. comprising one or more application modules such as a universal search module in the examples described herein residing on a mobile device e.g. mobile device of . A user of the mobile device may initiate a search using the universal search module e.g. universal search module of which is configured to permit searching of both locally stored data i.e. data stored on the mobile device and certain external sources of data associated with applications that have registered with the universal search module as described herein.

At an application that is associated with an external source of data registers with the universal search module on the mobile device. The application may be a proprietary application originating from the manufacturer of the mobile device or a third party application that is provided by an entity other than the manufacturer for example.

Many different types of potential external data sources exist. For example data may be provided by a third party web search engine wherein web pages may be identified in a search. As a further example data may be provided by a file sharing website wherein songs videos or other multimedia may be provided and identified in a search. As a further example data may originate from a news feed or a news website wherein news articles headlines and other related news content may be identified in a search. As further examples and without limitation social networking sites data feeds map websites web messaging applications merchant websites web directories network databases Web servers enterprise servers e.g. message management server and engines that draw from any number of multiple data sources which may incorporate a combination of some or all of the previously mentioned sources may also provide data that can be subject to search for example.

When an application is downloaded to the mobile device the application may be configured to register with the universal search module so that the external source of data with which the application is associated may be accessed when a search is subsequently initiated at the mobile device. Accordingly searches of the external data source may be performed without the need for the user to independently navigate the external data source directly e.g. to visit the website or to run the application on the mobile device.

For example the user may download an application associated with a music store wherein the application provides access to a catalog containing song titles album titles artist names and other data that can be searched. By registering the music store application with the universal search module the contents of the catalog can be searched by the module without requiring the user to access the music store s website e.g. using a browser or to independently run the music store application to perform the search.

In one example embodiment applications are registered with the universal search module. Once an application is registered it may make data from the data source e.g. local or external associated with the application available for search.

Registering an application with the universal search module may be required in order to confirm that the application is permitted to provide data from its associated data source for searching. This may be desirable particularly where the application is a third party application and where certain controls are desirable to maintain device security. For example an administrator or a user of the mobile device may wish to control and approve which third party applications may provide data to the universal search module for searching independent of whether the applications might be permitted to reside and execute on the mobile device.

In accordance with at least one embodiment the universal search module provides a specialized API that is made accessible to registered applications. Through this interface the universal search module can communicate with the registered applications that provide access to data sources e.g. external data sources for searching. The act of registering an application with the universal search module may involve verifying that the application can properly interface with the specialized API.

The specialized API may have access control privileges e.g. internal public . Applications seeking access to the API may be verified using a code signing process and a security check may be performed on the calling application at runtime.

In some embodiments each application can also set its own access control privileges for its associated data at registration time. Based on how the access control privileges for the given application itself are set other registered applications on the mobile devices may be permitted to query the data of that given application.

As noted above the act of registering an application generally makes the data associated with the application available for search. The registration act may involve other acts in variant embodiments. For example registration may comprise acts that facilitate the identification and reporting of bad applications e.g. applications that are misusing the API applications that are utilizing an excess amount of processing resources etc. .

At the application associated with the external data source is downloaded to the mobile device. The download may be initiated by the user for example.

In at least one embodiment the downloaded application is configured to trigger the registration process after its initialization where the application wishes to utilize the specialized API provided by the universal search module and allow access to its associated data.

At verification that the application downloaded at is to be registered is performed. This may involve for example determining if the application is permitted to provide external data to the universal search module. For example verification that the application has been authorized by the mobile device manufacturer by being signed through a code signing process may be performed.

If the downloaded application is to be registered then at the downloaded application is added to the list of applications that can provide searchable data to the universal search module. A data structure e.g. registered applications data structure of may be employed to keep track of applications that are registered with the universal search module. Once an application is registered the application may be called upon by the universal search module to cause a search of the associated external data source to be made in response to the initiation of a search e.g. by a user at the mobile device. The data source may then also be identified in option screens and search result screens to be displayed in the user interface provided by the universal search module.

In some embodiments a downloaded application must be both registered and activated before it may provide data from the external data source to the universal search module. In this case a user may be required to provide a separate user confirmation after an application is registered in order to activate the application before the external data source can be searched. In other embodiments once registered the external data source may be made searchable by default until a user subsequently exercises an opt out or deactivation option. Once a registered application is deactivated the external data source is not subject to search temporarily until the application is re activated.

In some embodiments a list may be displayed at the user s direction in the user interface of the mobile device showing which registered applications have been activated at any given time and permitting the deactivation and reactivation of particular applications.

If it is determined at that the application is not to be registered then at the application is denied access to the functionality provided by the universal search module.

In one embodiment the universal search module may permit users to configure e.g. at whether a registered application may provide data from its associated external data source not only to the universal search module but also to one or more other registered applications other than the universal search module for searching purposes. The configuration may also be controlled by an administrator through a security policy e.g. IT policy for example.

As an illustration consider an application that provides access to a restaurant directory which has been registered at . The application may be configured to not only permit the universal search module to search the contents of the restaurant directory but also to allow other registered applications to search those contents as well. For example the restaurant directory application may be configured to allow all other registered applications on the mobile device including a meal reservation application for instance to search the restaurant directory. As a further example the restaurant directory application may permit access to the restaurant directory by some applications e.g. the meal reservation service but not others e.g. an application that provides users with restaurant reviews .

In one embodiment a given application allows its associated data to be accessible to other registered applications executing on the mobile device by appropriately setting its access control privileges and informing the universal search module accordingly during the registration process. The other applications would then be permitted to make requests for data via the universal search module from all available data sources e.g. all data sources or select sources based on content type associated with the given application and query the data sources for data.

Referring again to acts to are performed when a search is initiated by a user through the user interface of the universal search module for example. In this example at least one application associated with an external data source has been registered at .

At a search term is received from the user through the user interface. A search may be performed on the received search term even if the search term has not yet been entered in its entirety from the user s perspective. For example the user may wish to search for items containing the text colleen or coleen but may initially be unsure of the spelling. When the user types in a few characters e.g. col in the user interface and pauses during data entry subsequent acts of the searching method e.g. acts to may be initiated using col as the search term. If the user then types in additional letters e.g. leen the search may be interrupted with the flow of methods acts reverting back to step . The search may then continue with the expanded search term.

In some embodiments the search is performed as a user types in a search term in the user interface. It may or may not be necessary for the user to explicitly click a search icon or to otherwise direct that a search be initiated before a search is commenced depending on the configuration of the universal search module.

At a search is initiated on data stored locally on the mobile device based on the search term received at . Locally stored data may include for example without limitation still images and or videos and associated data message data e.g. e mail text instant calendar data audio files and associated data program and or utility names and help documentation.

The user may be permitted to set user preferences e.g. at through user settings provided by the universal search module that define what types of data e.g. photos message data etc. may be searched. Particular storage locations may also be specified for the search in some embodiments. Otherwise a general search of data not restricted to particular types of data or storage locations may be initiated. The user may be permitted to configure the universal search module to include data in encrypted data files e.g. the user may be prompted for an access password for searching in certain embodiments.

At a determination is made as to whether one or more external sources of data are to be automatically searched using the search term received at . The determination may require verifying user settings e.g. as set by a user at . For example the user configuration may indicate that the external data sources are to be automatically searched in additional to the local data sources once the search term is received from the user in the user interface of the universal search module without requiring further user direction. The outcome of the determination may also depend on a security policy e.g. an IT policy that governs the use of the mobile device. For example an administrator may wish to control through IT policy that no external sources of data are to be accessed by the particular mobile device or that only certain specified external sources of data may be accessed. Settings provided by the IT policy may be given priority over any user defined settings.

In other embodiments a search of an external data sources may only be permitted after a user has clicked or otherwise selected an icon representing the external data source in the user interface of the universal search module.

If it is determined that the external sources of data are to be automatically searched then the flow of method acts proceeds to . Otherwise the flow of method acts proceeds to where the results of the search of locally stored data are displayed as search result data to the user in the user interface.

Acts to are performed for each external source of data to be searched. First act is performed for a given external data source. It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the search of external data sources may be initiated even if the search of local data sources in has not yet been completed. In other words searches of the external data sources and local data sources may be performed concurrently in certain embodiments.

In some embodiments the user may be able to de activate an application that might otherwise search its associated external data source when instructed by the universal search module. Accordingly at user preferences e.g. as set at are verified and confirmation that the user or an administrator via IT policy for example has not excluded the given external data source from being searched may be made. If the given external data source is to be excluded then the flow of method acts will proceed to flow not explicitly shown so that the next external data source may be considered.

In some embodiments the user may have initiated a search by category which directs the universal search module to initiate a search of certain external data sources that are considered to relate to the specified category. The term category is also referred to interchangeably herein as a content type as both terms imply a grouping of data sources based on the type of information content provided by the data sources.

For example a web search category may be provided. In one embodiment when a search by this category is initiated one or more third party search engines that provide web search capabilities e.g. Yahoo Google etc. may be invoked. As a further example a web mail category may be provided. In one embodiment when a search by this category is initiated messages stored off device as managed by one or more messaging service providers e.g. Yahoo Mail Gmail Windows Live Hotmail may be searched. Other categories may be made available as search categories including for example without limitation social networks news searches media retail site searches map website searches coupon searches and others.

In variant embodiments the data sources associated with one or more categories may change depending on the current location of the mobile device. In some embodiments this may require that the mobile device be GPS enabled. In these embodiments the data sources associated with one or more categories may change dynamically in response to a change in the location of the mobile device. Alternatively the location may be determined by the location as indicated in user settings on the mobile device.

As an example different search engines may be associated with a web search category depending if the mobile device is operating in the United States or in China. Other data sources associated with a different category may differ as well depending on where the mobile device is operating.

Custom categories may also be defined by a user wherein the user may associate one or more external data sources one or more local data sources or a combination of local and external data sources with each custom category.

In some embodiments when searching by category the universal search module may be configured to search all of the data sources e.g. all of the external data sources associated with a user selected category which have registered with the universal search module.

In other embodiments the universal search module may be configured to search only a strict subset of the data sources e.g. a strict subset of the external data sources associated with the user selected category when a search by category is initiated. The subset may be defined in user preferences which may be configured by an administrator through a security policy in some embodiments. In other embodiments the user may set user preferences during user configuration at . The user may be permitted to select the subset of data sources to be searched when a search by category is performed.

In at least one embodiment the user may be permitted to define user preferences to specify a preferred source for searching a specific content type e.g. to specify a particular search engine as the preferred source when a search under a web search category is to be performed or to specify a particular map website as the preferred source when a search under a map search category is to be performed . After a search by category is initiated the user s preferred data source is initially searched e.g. at and results displayed as search result data to the user e.g. at .

Accordingly at user preferences may be verified and confirmation that the given external data source is the preferred source to be searched is made in at least one embodiment. If the given external data source is not to be searched then the flow of method acts will proceed to flow not explicitly shown so that the next external data source may be considered.

In variant embodiments the preferred source for one or more search categories may be defined by an administrator through a security policy e.g. IT policy .

At the universal search module passes the search term received at to the registered application associated with the given external data source. The application is directed to query the external data source using the search term received at as search criteria and return the results of the search to the universal search module. For example if the given external source of data originates from a video sharing website the search may return data that identifies videos having a title artist name or description that contains the search term.

The actual form of data returned from a data source may vary depending on implementation. For example a summary of a located item e.g. description listing may be returned along with a list of available actions e.g. open play forward . Each application associated with a data source can define the available actions for different data types when making its associated data searchable e.g. during registration of the application with the universal search module .

In one embodiment a local cache on the mobile device may be employed by the universal search module. Search results may be stored in the cache and searching of the cached data rather than of the given external source directly may be performed at in order to obtain search results more efficiently. A time stamping or similar technique may be employed e.g. identifying when the cached data was last updated to ensure that the contents of the cache are not stale. The application may query the given external source at rather than using the contents of the cache if is determined that the contents of the cache are too old .

At search results obtained from the given external data source via the registered application are stored on the mobile device and indexed to allow faster retrieval of data. The indexing of the data may be deferred to some later time e.g. at device idle time to minimize interference with other operations of the mobile device. A registered application may be configured to store the obtained data on the mobile device for a particular length of time or until some event occurs e.g. the application receives a direction to delete the search results from storage on the mobile device for example.

In at least one embodiment actual content e.g. videos music tracks that reside on external data sources will not be returned to the mobile device for storage. Instead keywords describing the actual content and a reference to that content are returned by the search and stored on the device. The universal search module leaves it up to the registered application to decide what keywords are to be associated with the content.

At it is determined whether there are any further external sources to be searched. If so the flow of method acts proceeds back to .

At search result data based on the results of searching one or more local data sources one or more external data sources or both may be displayed to the user in the user interface provided by the universal search module.

The display of search result data at may take on different forms. For example the results of a search of a particular external data source may be presented initially in summary form. For example the user may be notified of the number of hits that resulted from the search of this particular data source. A representative icon e.g. a logo if a commercial data source accompanying the number of hits resulting from the search may also be displayed. Moreover if the user subsequently selects the icon a new screen displaying more detailed results of the search of the particular external data source may be displayed.

In some embodiments search result data will be generated and displayed as the user types in a search keyword. The search result data may be presented in a variety of forms. Data returned from a data source may comprise metadata regarding the type time etc. associated with various data items. The universal search module can use this information when displaying results in the user interface. For example different results may be grouped into a folder or presented as a list or in some other format. The universal search module may display the results in a folder having the name of the application through which search data is retrieved. Contacts e.g. as identified by contact data stored on the mobile device may be displayed as individual items. Data retrieved from a data source associated with an application as a result of a search may be grouped inside a folder labeled with the application name and the number of items contained in the folder. If a user of the mobile device were to click on the folder items may be further displayed in a list or in some other representation. Data may be provided using multiple pages. A user may also perform various other actions on search result data depending on the data type. Selectable links may be provided in the user interface of the universal search module along with search results allowing users to extend a search to perform a search by category or search another specific external data source for example. Other display configurations and navigation techniques of search result data are possible in variant embodiments.

If the search result data being displayed is based on data that originates from multiple data sources e.g. local external or both then the results may be displayed in a grid like summary format in accordance with one embodiment. A representative icon number of hits and optionally a description of the data source or a category associated with the search results may be displayed for each data source represented in the grid. This layout e.g. compared to a list format may improve usability. Scroll bars arrows or other indicia may be displayed to indicate the existence of different pages of search result data that are not currently shown in the displayed grid due to constraints imposed by the size of the display.

In a variant embodiment the results presented in summary format may have been subject to grouping before their display. For example if there are two data sources of music content to be represented and each of the data sources have returned only a handful of hits the results may be pre consolidated and identified using one general music icon for display with the combined number of hits identified to the user. This may improve usability.

Although illustrates a particular flow of acts in the search of external data sources it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that in variant embodiments where there are multiple external data sources to be searched the acts associated with the searching of the various data sources is not restricted to being performed sequentially but may instead be performed concurrently.

Although not explicitly shown in the flow of method acts may proceed back to if searching of external data sources is desired after an initial set of search results have already been displayed.

For example if at it was determined that the external sources of data were not to be automatically searched then the results displayed at may initially only reflect data stored in local data sources. If the user after considering the initial results wishes to extend his or her search to include one or more additional external data sources then the flow of method acts may proceed back to so that the searches of one or more external data sources may be initiated. This extended search may be performed automatically for all registered external data sources or only for particular external data sources as selected by a user or as may otherwise be pre configured by the user or an administrator. In future iterations of method where is reached the flow of method acts may proceed back to again if searching of additional external data sources is desired.

In at least one embodiment an extended search may be performed after a user initiates a search by category. If the search by category is initiated after the search result data from a previous search has already been displayed e.g. at then the flow of method acts may proceed back to so that one or more additional external data sources can be searched. The specific additional external data source s to be searched in response to the initiation of a search by category may depend on user preferences as described above. The search by category would then be an extended search which may be performed in response to the user selection of a category button displayed in the user interface provided by the universal search module see e.g. below .

The results of the extended search may then be displayed in an updated screen. In one embodiment a new icon that represents the external data source searched can be displayed in the updated screen if an icon associated with that external data source is not already displayed. The number of hits located in the search by category can then be displayed with the corresponding icon. The updated search result data may be incorporated into the grid like format for display for example. Other formats are possible in variant implementations.

In some embodiments a search by category may also require that certain local data sources be searched. In that case the flow of method acts may proceed from to for example flow not shown so that the local data sources may be searched.

In this example the icons associated with the sources STORE YEP and VID represent external sources of data associated with registered applications. In the external sources were also searched and the results of the search summarized in display

As previously noted in at least one embodiment results are presented as a user types in a search term. Furthermore in at least one embodiment results are presented initially only for data from local data sources e.g. on device contents . For data originating from an external data source e.g. off device contents a user may be required to click on the icon folder or other representation of the data source in the user interface before the external data source is searched in these embodiments.

For example shows a screen which is similar to screen except that the search of external data sources was not performed using the search term col . In this manner the universal search module can perform a search of local data sources first and then check with the user if an extended search that would result in a search of one or more of the external data sources is desired before proceeding. This may conserve bandwidth and processor resources in the event that the user ultimately deems that the search of the external data sources is not immediately necessary. In this example the user may be provided with the option of selecting a particular displayed icon representing a specific external data source in order to initiate a search of that external data source.

Category buttons are displayed to the user. In this embodiment these buttons are displayed after a search of local data sources is performed. Each category button provides the user with an option to extend the search by performing a search by category. As described earlier herein selecting a category button may initiate a search of one or more external data sources that have been associated with the category identified by the selected category button .

In at least one embodiment a preferred external data source may be associated with a given selected category depending on user preferences for example. If so initiation of a search by the given category will cause that preferred external data source to be searched.

For example shows a screen after the web search category was selected by the user. The external search engine YEP a preferred external data source that was associated with the web search category during a user configuration was searched using the search term col and a new representative icon is displayed with a corresponding description and number of hits.

Although depict that a search by category may be performed as an extended search for a given search term i.e. after at least one search iteration has already been completed it will be understood that a search by category may be initiated without a prior search having been completed. For example the search term may be received from the user at of and a search by category initiated at that time. If the search by category does not involve searching local data sources as may be defined in user settings act may be skipped and method may proceed directly with the remaining acts to search appropriate external data sources in performing the search by category.

Some of the acts of one or more methods described herein may be provided as software instructions stored on computer readable storage media and executable by a processor. Examples of computer readable storage media may include a hard disk a floppy disk an optical disk e.g. a compact disk a digital video disk a flash drive or flash memory magnetic tape and memory. Other configurations are possible as well.

In variant implementations some of the acts of one or more methods described herein may be provided as executable software instructions stored in transmission media.

A number of embodiments have been described herein. However it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that other variants and modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the embodiments as defined in the claims appended hereto.

