---

title: Volatile imidazoles and group 2 imidazole based metal precursors
abstract: Synthesis of the novel compounds and their use to form BST films is also contemplated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08703103&OS=08703103&RS=08703103
owner: Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.
number: 08703103
owner_city: Allentown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110128
---
This patent application claims the benefit of prior U.S. Provisional Patent Applications Ser. No. 61 301 824 filed Feb. 5 2010 and 61 369 448 filed Jul. 30 2010.

The semiconductor fabrication industry continues to source volatile metal containing precursors for vapor deposition processes including chemical vapor deposition CVD and atomic layer deposition ALD for fabricating conformal metal containing films on substrates such as silicon metal nitride metal oxide and other metal containing layers using these metal containing precursors.

Barium and strontium containing precursors are especially sought after for the deposition of thin barium and strontium oxide containing thin films such as strontium titanate STO and barium strontium titanate oxide BST for advanced memory device manufacture. Strontium precursors are also useful for the thin film deposition of ferroelectric materials of the type SrBiTaOfor non volatile memory for the fabrication of thin film high temperature Tc superconductors of the type BiSrCaCuOand for the manufacture of SrS Ce and SrS Cu phosphors for electroluminescent displays. Although there are fluorinated barium precursors which have excellent volatility their use for BST manufacturing is effectively precluded since fluoride ion can form in the oxide film and act as a charge carrier which degrades the dielectric constant of the oxide film. Numerous strontium sources for strontium oxide and strontium titanate exist but none have the ALD performance of the precursors of this disclosure.

Thus there is a strong need for volatile unfluorinated barium and strontium precursor compounds with high ALD performance but such compounds are scarce especially so for barium. This stems from the large ionic radius of the barium 2 and strontium 2 ions requiring ionic ligands which can provide a coordinating environment sufficient to provide compounds which are monomeric or dimeric in strontium or barium. If this requirement is not met the strontium and especially the barium compounds tend to form highly associated or polymeric structures of limited volatility. However even if monomeric or dimeric structures can be achieved they may still not possess the thermal stability required to survive the high sublimation or distillation temperatures required for their vaporization and to maintain their thermal stability when adsorbed as monolayers in ALD. For all of these reasons unfluorinated barium and strontium precursors which are monomeric or dimeric thermally stable readily volatile and highly suited to BST and STO manufacture by ALD or CVD are extremely scarce but highly sought after. Even more sought after are group 2 volatile precursors which have high deposition rates in ALD.

The prior art has attempted to provide precursors for these applications as set forth below. However none of the metal complexes in the prior art share the special characteristic of the complexes disclosed in the present invention. The compounds disclosed herein are exceptional in their volatility and thermal stability under conditions of vaporization. In addition they have exceptionally high ALD deposition rates enabling them to grow 1 monolayer of metal oxide per ALD cycle. This makes them highly effective as precursors for STO and BST film growth and any other application which requires volatile sources of barium strontium magnesium radium or calcium precursors.

Barium and other alkaline earth metal diketiminates are described in the literature. For beta diketonates the compound Ba THD where THD is 3 3 5 5 tetramethylheptanedionate has been reported. Although it is a stable and volatile compound its molecular weight of 2000 renders its utility in ALD or CVD process challenging especially when compared to smaller more volatile compounds such as the barocenes and especially when compared to the new compounds of the present invention which are more cleanly volatile and have higher ALD deposition rates and lowered melting points when compared to the barocenes.

Thermally stable and volatile tri pyrazoyl borate alkaline earth complexes including those of barium have been reported. However these compounds suffer from containing the element boron which under oxidation conditions deposits boron oxide into the metal oxide of a CVD or ALD process.

Volatile barium and strontium complexes based on diketiminate ligands bearing NMegroups substituted on the core diimine nitrogens are reported. But the barium molecule in this series sublimed to give only a 79 sublimation recovery leaving a 14 wt involatile residue. This sublimation was performed at 0.05 Torr. If it had been conducted at atmospheric pressure its involatile residue would have been significantly higher. These results indicate this molecule to have limited suitability as a precursor for CVD or ALD processes.

The synthesis and thermal properties of a series of nine different barium cyclopentadienyl also known as barocenes have been reported. Selected species from these barocenes particularly the barium bis tri tert butlycyclopentadienyl are state of the art precursors possessing an attractive combination of thermal stability and volatility. However the new molecules of the present invention are shown to be superior to them with regard to these two key properties. Additionally the new precursors of this disclosure due to their unique molecular characteristics also have exceptionally high ALD deposition rates making them more attractive from a device manufacturing perspective.

Harder S. 2002 Homoleptic beta Diketiminate Complexes of the Alkaline Earth Metals Trends in the Series Mg Ca Sr and Ba Organometallics 21 18 3782 3787.

El Kaderi H. M. and M. J. W. Heeg C. H. 2004 . Sandwich Complexes of the Heavier Alkaline Earth Metals Containing 5 Diketiminato Ligand Sets. Organometallics 23 4995 5002.

Timo Hatanpaa Marko Vehkamaki Ilpo Mutikainen Jarno Kansikas and Mikko Ritala Synthesis and characterization of cyclopentadienyl complexes of barium precursors for atomic layer deposition of BaTiO Dalton Trans. 2004 p. 1181 1188.

Sterically hindered imidazole ligands are disclosed along with the syntheses of the same which when complexed to a Group 2 metal form highly volatile and stable complexes that are exceptionally useful as precursor molecules for CVD ALD and the like thin film deposition processes.

The present invention is an imidazole molecule which can be deprotonated to yield an imidazolate substituted in at least the 2 5 positions with a bulky group R of the formula 

wherein Rand Rare individually bulky groups having sufficient 3 dimensional form to impart a property to the imidazolate to bond with metals in an eta1 eta 2 eta 3 eta 4 or eta 5 bond and Rcan be a bulky group or a group which is not a bulky group.

Preferably the imidazolate s Rand Rare individually selected from the group consisting of tert butyl isopropyl tert amyl neopentyl adamantly hexyl cyclohexyl propyl butyl isobutyl pentyl isopentyl neopenty norbornyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl dimethylpropyl dimethylbutyl dimethylpentyl dimethylhexyl ethylmethylpropyl isohexyl isopentyl

In another aspect the present invention teaches compounds comprising one or more polysubstituted imidazolate anions coordinated to a metal selected from the group consisting of barium strontium magnesium calcium or radium or mixtures thereof.

Mixtures of these novel imidazolate metal complexes combined with other metal complexes are also contemplated where the additional metal complex can be a titanium imidazolate complex or a non imidazolate complex including where the complexes are dissolved in a solvent and the resulting formulation used in DLI mode. Particularly useful combinations would include those where a strontium imidazole is combined with a titanium complex as a simple mixture or co dissolved in a suitable solvent as a DLI formulation for STO ALD or CVD. Similarly barium imidazolate complexes can be combined with suitable titanium complexes for BST film growth.

Alternatively one imidazolate anion can be substituted with a second non imidazolate anion. In addition the imidazolate anion may also bear a substituent which is also deprotonated to yield a dianionic species and this dianion is coordinated to a metal such as barium strontium magnesium calcium or radium or mixtures thereof.

Preferably the second non imidazolate anion is selected from the group consisting of polysubstituted imidazolate anion polyalkylated pyrrolyl anion beta diketonates acetates ketoiminates diimines alkoxides amides hydrides beta ketoesters amidinates guanidinates cyclopentadienyl cyanide isocyanide formate oxalate malonate phenoxide thiolate sulfide nitrate alkyl silylalkyl fluoroalkyl aryl imidazolate hydride and mixtures thereof.

2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate and their barium strontium magnesium and calcium salts.

An embodiment of the present invention s imidazolate comprises a mixture of strontium imidazolate with a volatile titanium source. More preferably this embodiment includes as the volatile titanium source an imidazolate based titanium precursor

Alternately the imidazole has at least two of R Rand Rjoined so that two or more imidazole ligands are joined together.

Preferred metal imidazolates include Di barium tetra 2 4 5 tris t butylimidazolate Di barium tetra 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate Di barium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di tert butylimidazolate and Di barium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate Di strontium tetra 2 4 5 tris t butylimidazolate Di strontium tetra 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate Di strontium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di tert butylimidazolate and Di strontium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate .

Preferably the present invention s metal imidazolates are contained in a stainless steel container. More preferably the stainless steel container is electropolished in its interior. Most preferably the stainless steel container is outfitted with inlet and outlet valves for high purity low dead space service.

Currently a major use of ALD in the semiconductor industry is the growth of metal oxides such as strontium oxide barium oxide and the perovskite oxides strontium titanate STO and barium titanate BST . Often these processes are required to grow perfectly conformal films into deeply bored cyclindrical volumes vias or over colulmar structures pillars where it is imperative that there is no thermal decomposition or CVD component that will degrade conformality.

One major mechanism by which precursors thermally degrade is when the anionic ligand to which the metal coordinates starts to decompose. Thus making metal precursors which are coordinated to anions which are thermally robust is highly desirable. The novel imidazolate ligand anions of this disclosure are demonstrated to be of high thermal stability. Also it is important that in the evaporation phase the anionic ligand does not coordinate to multiple metal centers to form compounds of high nuclearity such as tetramers or polymers which are either of low volatility or are involatile. So in summation the anionic ligands need to coordinate a relatively low number of metal centers such as 1 2 or 3 and are thermally very resilient against degradation.

However notwithstanding this need for high thermal stability the precursors also need to be chemically highly reactive under ALD conditions. To achieve such a highly stable anionic ligand also means that its formal negative charge needs to be stabilized by the structure of the ligand. The novel imidazolate anions of this disclosure stabilize their negative charge by being a five membered ring aromatic anion which contains two nitrogen atoms. The electrogenativity of the latter two atoms also increase the stability of the formal negative charge. Other five memebered aromatic ring anions exist such as cyclopentadienyl and pyrrolyl but these are not as stable as the imidazolate anions of this disclosure. The cyclopentadienyl ring contains only five carbon atoms and the pyrrolyl ring contains four carbon atoms and one nitrogen atom. Also the relative acidities of the ligands cyclopentadiene pyrrole and imidazole are 16.0 16.45 and 14.5 respectively showing that imidazole is the most acidic of the three indicating that its conjugate base i.e. the imidazolate anion is the most stable of the three. Also the practical steric limit for substituting large bulky groups such as tert butyl onto cyclopentadienyl pyrrolyl and imidazolate anions is anticipated to be three. This means that such a substituted cyclopentadienyl ring will have two ring carbons remaining substituted with only hydrogen and pyrrolyl will have one ring carbon substituted with only hydrogen. However the analogous tri substituted imidazolate ring has no such ring carbons bearing only hydrogen since all three of its ring carbons are substituted with the three tert butyl type substituents.

While not wishing to be bound by theory it is believed that the absence of hydrogen substituents on the ring of imidazolate anions renders them more thermally stable than either comparably substituted cyclopenatdienyl or pyrrolly anions. Also important is the shape and volume of the anionic ligand because if its structure bears large bulky groups such as tert butyl these can ensure that the nuclearity of the resulting metal complexes will be low since bonding access to the ligand will be restricted to 3 or less metal centers. The novel imidazole ligands of this disclosure are shown to be readily functionalized with such bulky groups and demonstrated to be capable of binding 3 or less metal centers to make metal complexes that are volatile and highly useful as precursors. Besides these features it is also desirable if the synthesis of the organic ligand can be accomplished efficiently and in high yield and can produce pure product with no side reactions.

It is desirable if the synthesis of the ligand permits precise control over the introduction of different organic groups to its structure and this is readily achieved with the imidazole ligands of this disclosure. Thus if a specifically trisubstituted imidazole ligand is targeted it can be readily prepared in pure form while avoiding the formation of by products where the different substituents are more randomly distributed. The latter case is more common for cyclopentadiene and pyrrole ligands resulting in a mixture of isomers which need extensive separation into their components.

It is shown that the novel imidazole ligands of this disclosure can be synthesized in high yield and purity as only one isomer when asymmetrically substituted with different bulky groups such as tert butyl. This is particularly important with respect to making a pure metal complex of lowered melting point or a liquid which is highly desirable since liquid precursors are easier to evaporate than solid precursors and are typically more soluble in solvents to make solutions for direct liquid injection DLI delivery.

To synthesize such a precursor typically entails building ligands that are asymmetrically functionalized with steric protecting groups since this results in an asymmetric metal complex which in turn results in a lowered melting point due to the asymmetry lowering the crystal lattice packing energies of the metal precursor. Thus it is preferable that the ligand can be efficiently asymmetrically functionalized if desired in a controlled and efficient manner.

This can readily be achieved in the synthesis of the novel imidazolate ligands of this disclosure by first synthesizing an alpha diketone substituted with bulky alkyl groups which will ultimately occupy the 4 and 5 ring positions of the imidazole ring then cyclizing this in the presence of ammonium acetate with an aldehyde substituted with a bulky alkyl group which will ultimately occupy the 2 position of the imidazole ring. In this way the ultimate substitution pattern of the imidazole including asymmetric alkylation is readily controlled.

An example of asymmetric alkylation is found in the comparison of which show the strontium complexes of the tri substituted imidazoles 2 4 5 tri tert butylimidazole and 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazole respectively.

The former imidazole is symmetrically substituted with three tert butyl groups whereas the latter imidazole is substituted with one tert butyl group in the 2 position and two tert amyl groups in the positions 4 and 5 and is thus asymmetric.

The barium complexes of these two imidazoles shown in show a more dramatic lowering of melting point from 151 C. shown in to 65 C. shown in respectively.

Thus the effect of asymmetric tri substitution upon imidazole yields metal complexes of lowered melting point. It is further anticipated that even lower melting points can be achieved when each of the three substituents is unique. Additionally larger asymmetric alkyl groups can also be used to lower the final precursor melting point.

The novel compounds of the present invention comprise anionic functionalized imidazolate ligands which may be coordinated to barium or strontium or magnesium radium or calcium ions to yield either monomeric or dimeric compounds in addition to neutral ligand adducts of those compounds which have exceptional thermal stability and clean evaporation characteristics.

These new complexes are also demonstrated to deliver exceptional ALD performance with growth rates of metal oxides 2 Angstroms per cycle thereby permitting the growth of one monolayer of metal oxide per ALD cycle. Additionally the ALD metal oxides grown from these new precursors are crystalline as deposited. Typically ALD metal oxide films are not crystalline as deposited and hence do not exhibit their full permittivity value. Hence they need to be thermally annealed at higher than deposition temperatures for crystallization to occur. This requires additional processing time and subjects the device upon which the film is grown to excessive heating which can potentially deteriorate it performance. Therefore being able to deliver crystalline oxide films as deposited represents a significant manufacturing advantage. Experimentally we find that after about 10 16 seconds of precursor pulse sufficient strontium is delivered to achieve a monolayer of SrO after oxidation. Thus good control over the effective saturation of the initially adsorbed layers can be achieved quickly as shown in . Thus the imidazolate metal complexes of this disclosure are unique in their ability to grow metal oxides at exceptionally high ALD deposition rates when contrasted to comparable cyclopentadienyl or pyrrolyl metal precursors. TEM analysis of an ALD SrO film grown at 375 C. using di strontium tetra 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl and ozone reagent as shown in clearly indicates a regular array of metal oxide atoms which are spaced at 24 grains per 6.6 nm 66 24 2.75 Angstroms which corresponds precisely with the unit cell dimensions of pure 001 strontium oxide. In addition if the amorphous layer below this array were annealed into a crystalline phase it should yield about 23 layer to give a total of 24 23 47 layers of SrO. Experimentally 50 ALD cycles were used so this confirms the effective deposition of 1 monolayer of SrO cycle.

The imidazolate rings can also be asymmetrically substituted to yield lower melting point compounds of high solubility well suited to direct liquid injection DLI . The structure of the ligand 2 5 di tertbutylimidazole an imidazole ligand created according to this disclosure Example 1 is shown in .

The present invention is in one embodiment an imidazole substituted in at least the 2 5 positions with a bulky group R of the formula 

Wherein Rand Rare individually bulky groups having sufficient 3 dimensional form to impart a property to the imidazole so that after it is deprotonated to give imidazolate anion it can bond with metals in a eta 5 bond eta 4 eta 3 eta 2 or eta 1 bond and Rcan be a bulky group or a group which is not a bulky group. R Rand Rcan also be bulky groups which contain an unsaturation such as a carbon carbon double bond or a carbon carbon triple bond.

These imidazoles can then be deprotonated to yield their respective imidazolate anions which can then coordinate to barium strontium calcium or radium ions to in turn yield their respective complexes.

Preferably the imidazolate s Rand Rare individually selected from the group consisting of tert butyl isopropyl tert amyl neopentyl adamantly hexyl cyclohexyl propyl butyl isobutyl pentyl cyclopentyl isopentyl neopenty norbornyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl propyl butyl isobutyl pentyl isopentyl dimethylbutyl dimethylpentyl dimethylhexyl sec butyl ethylmethylpropyl isohexyl isopentyl.

Preferably the imidazolate s Ris a bulky group selected from the group consisting of tert butyl isopropyl tert amyl neopentyl adamantly hexyl hexyl cyclohexyl propyl butyl isobutyl pentyl cyclopentyl isopentyl neopenty norbornyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl propyl butyl isobutyl pentyl isopentyl dimethylbutyl dimethylpentyl dimethylhexyl sec butyl ethylmethylpropyl isohexyl isopentyl.

2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate and their barium strontium magnesium and calcium salts.

In another aspect the present invention teaches compounds comprising one or more polysubstituted imidazolate anions coordinated to a metal selected from the group consisting of barium strontium magnesium calcium or radium or mixtures thereof.

Alternatively one imidazolate anion can be substituted with a second non imidazolate anion. In addition the imidazolate anion may also bear a substituent which is also deprotonated to yield a dianionic species and this dianion is coordinated to a metal such as barium strontium magnesium calcium or radium or mixtures thereof.

To understand the unique character of these ligands it is instructive to consider the structure and substitutional numbering system of unsubstituted imidazole as shown in Formula A. Note that the ring numbering system indicates that when all three carbon atoms of the imidazole ring are substituted with alkyl groups then the resulting molecule would be called a 2 4 5 trialkylimidazole.

When the N H group of imidazole is deprotonated at position 1 the resulting formal negative charge of the anion thus created is delocalized throughout the five membered ring. However if such an anion coordinates to metal cations it will typically do so through both of the nitrogen atoms not involving the three carbon atoms of the ring. In this way the imidazole anion most typically behaves as a linear bridging anion between metal centers.

This very strong tendency for imidazolates to linearly bridge metal cations is frequently utilized as a technique to build framework complexes where the imidazole act as a molecular scaffold to link metals cations together as illustrated in Formula B. Being highly associated such structures are involatile.

The novel imidazole ligands of the present invention are unique in that they are substituted in at least the 2 and 5 positions more preferably the 2 4 and 5 positions on the imidazole ring using sufficiently bulky groups such as tert butyl that when the imidazole is deprotonated to give an imidazolate anion it does not coordinate to a metal to form a highly associated structure as in Formula B but rather other modes of coordination to the metal become possible. One possible mode of coordination then becomes an eta 5 mode where the plane of the five membered ring is positioned sideways to the metal ion. This then permits the metal to bond to all five atoms of the imidazolate ring as shown in Formula C where R represents bulky alkyl type groups.

Bulky groups for the purpose of the present invention are groups which have sufficient 3 dimensional spacial form to create the steric hindrance needed so that metals bonding with the imidazolates of the present invention are enabled to be preferably bonded in the eta 5 bonding or end on eta 1 bonding of Formulae C and D respectively. Additionally the bonding modes between these two extremes are also possible such as eta 2 eta 3 and eta 4.

More preferably bulky groups for the purpose of the present invention are groups which have sufficient 3 dimensional spacial form to create sufficient steric hindrance so that metals bonding with the imidazolates of the present invention are enabled to be bonded in the eta 5 bonding of Formula D.

The structure depicted in Formula D represents an unexpected result in that the vast preponderance of imidazole anions ie imidazolates do not bind in an eta 5 or sideways manner but rather linearly only though the nitrogen atoms as in Formula B.

In the Cambridge crystallographic data base there is only one example of an eta 5 metal to imidazolate ion coordination M. Tadokoro T. Shiomi K. Isob K. Nakasuji 40 5476 5478 2001 and it occurs in an involatile mixed metal polymeric coordination compound rather than in the dicreet and volatile metal complexes of the present invention further underscoring the unique character of the present invention s novel imidazole ligands.

Additionally the imidazolate anions of this disclosure can also bond in a novel end on manner as shown in Formula C where the bulky substituents permit the metal to bond only to one of the imidazolate nitrogens. This is illustrated in where the two terminal imidazolate anions of di strontium tetra 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate are seen to bind to strontium by only one nitrogen. While not wishing to be bound by theory it is also anticipated that other novel bonding modes exist between the two extremes of eta 5 and eta 1 where only two three or four of the imidazolate ring atoms participate in bonding to the metal.

Bulky groups can comprise Cgroups preferably branched alkyl cyclic or aromatic and optionally further derivatized with other functional groups such as amine alkoxy hydroxyl carboxylic substituted amine and similar derivatives. Alkanes alkenes alkynes cyclic forms of the same aromatics and their derivatives are all contemplated as bulky groups as long as they meet the requirement of having sufficient bulk in the form of 3 dimensional spacial form to induce eta 4 eta 3 to 2 or eta 1 and more preferably eta 5 bonding of the imidazole with metals. Other suitable bulky alkyl groups include but are not limited to isopropyl tert amyl neopentyl adamantly hexyl cyclohexyl propyl butyl isobutyl tertbutyl pentyl isopentyl neopenty norbornyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl C Calkylphenyl C Calkoxy C Calkylamine C Calkyl functionalized with a heteroatom substituted ring structure selected from the group consisting of imidazole pyrrole pyridine furan pyrimidine pyrazole C Calkyl functionalized with an amide group C Calkyl functionalized with an ester group and mixtures thereof.

As can be seen in and the bulky groups can induce eta 5 bonding as exemplified by the terminal imidazolate anions present in these structures. However the central imidazolates act as bridging anions connecting the two metal centers together where the axis of the metal nitrogen bonds are not in the plane of the imidazolate ring but rather both pointed to one side of the plane. Not wishing to be bound by any theory it is believed that the bulky groups induce a preference for eta 4 eta 3 eta 2 or eta 1 and more preferably eta 5 bonding and when such bonding is satisfied additional linear non planar bonding is also permitted by the bulky groups possibly due to steric hindrance effects after two bulky group substituted imidazoles are bound to the metal. Thus in the present invention when the bulky groups are characterized by stating they impart a property to the imidazolate to bond with metals in an eta 4 eta 3 eta 2 or eta 1 and more preferably eta 5 bond this does not preclude additional bonding in linear fashion in addition to eta 5 etc but merely describes a favored or preferred bonding form. Without the bulky groups these imidazolates would not exhibit the property to favor eta 4 eta 3 eta 2 eta 1 and more preferably eta 5 i.e. non planar bridging bonding.

Unsubstituted phenyl does not display sufficient bulkiness to be included in the definition of bulky groups due to its largely planar 3 dimensional shape whereas cyclohexane has sufficient bond angles to constitute a bulky group.

In addition these alkyl substituents can also be functionalized with coordinating groups such as ether crown ether amine amide cyano isonitrile imine amidinine ester pyridine imidazole pyrrole pyrazole oxazole isooxazole furan pyrimidine furfuryl oxirane aziridine oxolane 1 3 dioxolane 1 4 doxane 1 3 5 trioxane pyrrolidine piperidine quinuclidine. They can also be functionalized with groups capable of being deprotonated so that with the imidazole also being deprotonated they form di anions which then can be coordinated to metal centers. Such groups include but are not limited to cyclopentadiene pyrrole beta diketone beta ketoimine beta diimine alcohol amine amide pyrrole phenol carboxylate amidinate guanidinate.

The effectiveness of tert butyl and similar three dimensional bulky groups versus planar groups such as phenyl in creating volatile alkaline earth compounds is illustrated by the preparation of the barium complex of 2 4 5 triphenylimidazole i.e. where R R R phenyl described in Example 20 where no volatile barium species could be isolated from the reaction mixture. This is in sharp contrast to the barium complexes of 2 4 5 tri tert butylimidazole and 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di tert butylimidazole described in Examples 8 and 16 respectively which shows exceptional volatility as illustrated by respectively.

One of the most well known family of barium compounds for ALD and CVD applications are the barocene compounds where the barium ion is coordinated to two multi alkyl functionalized cyclopentadienyl anions such as tri tert butylcyclopentadienyl t BuCp . TGA was used to screen the volatility thermal stability of these compounds. In this technique a sample of the barium compound is placed in a microbalance pan which is heated at a steadily increasing rate under a steady stream of dry inert gas such as nitrogen. As the temperature of the sample increases the barium compound evaporates at an ever increasing rate and this weight loss is detected by the microbalance. Eventually the evaporation ceases and for barium there is typically a residue of involatile material.

A low level of residue is highly desirable as this translates to a controlled evaporation of the barium being possible if it is used as a source precursor compound for ALD or CVD processes. In addition for CVD or ALD processes many metal precursors such as barium precursors are dissolved in a solvent and this solution is vaporized in a direct liquid injection DLI system. Basically this comprises delivering a precisely controlled flow of solution into a vaporizer where the solution and its dissolved solute are rapidly heated and vaporized under reduced pressure. The resulting vapor is then transported into the CVD or ALD reactor. Typically there are miniaturized nozzles and narrow bore tubes used inside the vaporizer at the point where the solution is nebulized or simply introduced into the vaporization temperature. If the solute does not fully evaporate and an involatile residue is formed these fine bore tubes can become obstructed thereby preventing any further flow of solution.

For these reasons it is highly desirable for the involatile residue observed in the TGA experiment to be as low as possible to avoid the accumulation of obstructing residues for the best possible DLI performance. This is especially important in a commercial manufacturing environment where such an equipment failure is prohibitively expensive. It is noted that the TGA results in for the molecules di barium tetra 2 4 5 tri tert butylimidazolate and di barium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di tert butylimidazolate respectively show involatile residues of only 3.53 and 2.99 wt respectively which are exceedingly low values indicating the excellent vaporization characteristics and superior volatility of the metal imidazolate complexes of this disclosure compared to their barocene homologues such as Ba tBuCH tetrahydrofuran . The latter is reported to have a TGA involatile residue of 4.2 wt Timo Hatanpaa Marko Vehkamaki Ilpo Mutikainen Jarno Kansikas and Mikko Ritala Synthesis and characterization of cyclopentadienyl complexes of barium precursors for atomic layer deposition of BaTiO Dalton Trans. 2004 p. 1181 1188 . However since this TGA result is of the tetrahydrofuran adduct of the barocene rather than pure barocene it appears artificially low since some of the weight loss is incurred simply from loss of tetrahydrofuran. Accounting for this discrepancy yields a corrected value of 675 603 4.2 4.7 wt where 675 and 603 represent the molecular weights of the barocene tetrahydrofuran adduct and pure barocene respectively.

The excellent thermal stability of di strontium tetra 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropylimidazolate is illustrated in Example 22 and where under ALD conditions pulses of di strontium tetra 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropylimidazolate are shown to not thermally degrade on a substrate surface until 350 C.

Preferred metal imidazolates include Di barium tetra 2 4 5 tris t butylimidazolate Di barium tetra 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate Di barium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di tert butylimidazolate and Di barium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate Di strontium tetra 2 4 5 tris t butylimidazolate Di strontium tetra 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate Di strontium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di tert butylimidazolate and Di strontium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate .

The present invention is also directed to the synthesis and use of new and novel barium strontium magnesium radium and calcium substituted imidazolate based compounds and their solutions for vapor delivery upon direct liquid injection wherein the substituted preferably alkyl groups of the imidazolate ligand anion are bulky hydrocarbons such as tert butyl tert amyl adamantly cyclohexyl neopentyl etc. and can be nitrogen or oxygen containing alkyl such as tertiary amine or ether groups. Additionally these new compounds can also coordinate other neutral ligands such as ethers or amines or alkoxyamines. Electron withdrawing groups such as nitro or acyl can also be present as a imidazolate ring substituent.

While not wishing to be bound by theory groups such as nitro enhance the coordination of added neutral ligands such as tetrahydrofuran THF diglyme 18 crown 6 crown ether by rendering the imidazolate anion less electron donating to barium or strontium or other alkaline earth metal and hence increase the Lewis acidity of the metal towards added ligands and hence increase their affinity to the metal. Achieving this enhanced coordination permits the entire barium or strontium compound with coordinated ligands such as THF to vaporize intact as one complete compound rather than releasing this coordinated ligand first.

The present invention also includes a novel method of synthesizing the barium strontium magnesium radium or calcium compounds by direct metallization of the imidazolate ligands using a metal reagent such as barium or strontium hexamethyldisilazane or barium or strontium hydride thereby providing an efficient alternative to using the standard metathesis type of reaction where the imidazole is first treated with a metal hydride such as sodium hydride to form a sodium imidazolate which is then in turn reacted with a barium or strontium halide such as barium or strontium iodide etc.

Other novel techniques for synthesizing these new compounds include but are not limited to direct reaction of the imidazole ligands with barium strontium magnesium or calcium metal as a vapor or as a finely dispersed powder or by reaction with barium or strontium metal etc. in the presence of ammonia or by reacting the imidazole ligands with barium metal in the presence of an amine such as hexamethyldisilazane with ammonia. The novel compounds may also be prepared by electrochemical syntheses.

Additionally a wide variety of metals and metalizing agents can be used to effectively deprotonate the imidazole ligands prior to reacting with a barium strontium magnesium radium or calcium source. Such reagents include but are not limited to lithium metal n butyl lithium n hexyl lithium sec butyl lithium tert butyl lithium lithium diisopropylamide potassium hydride potassium hexamethyldisilazane sodium hydride sodium metal sodium hexamethyldisilazane potassium metal barium metal sodium t butoxide potassium t butoxide. Barium sources include but are not limited to barium iodide barium bromide barium trifluoroacetate barium hexafluoroacetylacetone barium trifluoroacetylacetonate barium acetyacetonate barium diimine barium ketoimine barium amidinate barium guanidinate barium amide barium alkoxide barium amide barium carbonate barium acetate barium carbonate barium formate barium propionate barium phenoxide barium hydroxide barium fluoride barium amidinate barium amidinine and the strontium magnesium radium and calcium analogs to the barium sources.

The novel polysubstituted imidazole barium magnesium calcium radium or strontium compounds of the present invention are selected from the following structures in Formulae E F G and H where R R Rand are each individually selected to be acyl formyl nitro amido H C C primary secondary or tertiary alkyl primary secondary or tertiary alkene or alkyne C Calkoxy C Calkylphenyl alkylamine C Calkyl functionalized with a heteroatom substituted ring structure such as imidazole pyrrole pyridine furan pyrimidine pyrazole pyrrole C Calkyl functionalized with an amide group and C Calkyl functionalized with an ester group and each n independently 0 4 preferably each n independently 0 1 or 2. Note that neutral ligand free molecules where n zero in L to indicate that there is no L ligand coordinated are also described.

Mixed complexes can also be created where Rare varied differently among imidazolate anions and then this mixture is complexed to barium or other alkaline earth metal so that the resulting barium other alkaline earth metal complex represents a mixture. For example if two different imidazolate anions Iand Iare mixed together and then complexed to barium three unique barium complexes can be made i.e. Ba I Ba II and Ba I . If three different imidazolate anions I Iand Iare mixed and then complexed to barium six barium complexes are formed i.e. Ba I Ba II Ba II Ba I Ba II and Ba I . These mixtures will be either liquids or highly soluble formulations for DLI. Also the groups Rof one imidazolate anion can be joined together or can be joined to the Rgroups of another imidazolate anion to connect the two anions together. The neutral ligand L is selected from aliphatic C Cether or polyether crownethers such as 18 crown 6 amine or polyamine alkoxyamine or polyalkoxyamine amide or polyamide ester or polyester aromatic ether aromatic ester aromatic amide aromatic amine pyridine imidazole pyridine pyrazine furan alkylcarbonate or pyrrole. Additionally groups R R Rand can be linked together to form ring structures These ring structures can also be aromatic.

It is noteworthy that the dimeric compounds in Formulas F G and H constitute starting materials from which neutral ligands such as diglyme can be added to create adduct complexes.

In Formulae E F G and H M is a Group 2 metal selected from magnesium calcium strontium barium radium preferably strontium and barium more preferably barium.

In addition to the above complexes while not wishing to be bound by theory mixed barium complexes can also be made where one polyalkylated imidazolate anion and one other organic or inorganic anion coordinate to barium to make a complete complex. Examples of such alternative anions include but are not limited to beta diketonates acetates ketoiminates diimines alkoxides amides hydrides beta ketoesters amidinates guanidinates cyclopentadienyl cyanide isocyanide formate oxalate malonate phenoxide thiolate sulfide nitrate alkyl silylalkyl fluoroalkyl aryl imidazolate. Other alkaline earth metal complexes as described above are also contemplated.

Several advantages can be achieved through these metal containing polyalkylated imidazoles as precursors for chemical vapor deposition or atomic layer deposition and these include 

An ability to grow ALD and CVD metal oxides and mixed metal oxides such as STO or BST at high growth rates up to and beyond one monolayer per cycle 

An ability to grow crystalline metal oxide and mixed metal oxides films such as STO and BST directly under ALD or CVD process conditions 

An ability to form metal imidazole complexes of asymmetrically alkylated imidazolates to give low melting or liquid precursors 

Additionally metal complexes can also be made by coordinating two different polysubstituted imidazolate anions to a metal center such as barium such that the two ligands experience an optimal fit or interlock with each other and around the metal in such a way as to provide an adequate coordination sphere to create a stable monomeric complex.

While not wishing to be bound by theory the molecules of this disclosure are excellent precursors for use in CVD or ALD processes for depositing alkaline earth metal oxide containing films by reacting them together either sequentially or simultaneously with an oxidizer such as water alcohol oxygen ozone nitrous oxide nitrogen dioxide hydrogen peroxide or combinations thereof either in the presence or absence of an applied plasma discharge. Additionally barium and strontium molecules of this disclosure can be reacted with a titanium precursor such as a titanium alkoxy diketonate titanium alkoxy ketoester titanium alkoxide titanium cyclopentdienyl titanium amide titanium imidazolate containing precursor titanium pyrrolyl containing precursor or combinations thereof in a CVD pulsed CVD or ALD mode or hydrid pulsed CVD ALD process to deposit BST barium strontium titanate films which are highly prized due to their high dielectric constant. Additionally the barium complexes of this disclosure can be reacted with strontium ketoiminates and titanium precursors such as a titanium alkoxy diketonate titanium alkoxy ketoester titanium alkoxide titanium cyclopentdienyl titanium amide titanium imidazolate containing precursor titanium pyrrolyl containing precursor or combinations thereof in a CVD pulsed CVD or ALD or hydrid pulsed CVD ALD mode to deposit a BST film.

These new precursor molecules are able to deliver exceptionally high deposition rates due to their ability to engage in highly novel modes of surface adsorption and reaction. Thus when using the novel precursor a deposition rate of 2.5 Angstroms of strontium oxide per cycle at 350 C. is achieved representing 5 times a typical growth rate. Such an enhancement in growth per cycle is critically important because it permits a greater throughput of wafers per unit time in commercial production thus representing a substantial saving. Further it is believed that the novel imidazolate ligands of this disclosure will similarly permit enhanced growth rates of other metals and metal containing films.

The precursors of this disclosure are highly suitable for use as volatile precursors for ALD CVD pulsed CVD plasma enhanced ALD PEALD or plasma enhanced CVD PECVD for the manufacture of semiconductor type microelectronic devices such as microcapacitor cells for memory applications such as DRAM devices. They are also highly useful for the manufacture of pyrodetector devices.

The precursors of this application can also readily be dissolved into a wide range of solvents and the resulting solutions used in DLI mode to provide a vapor stream of these precursors into an ALD or CVD reactor. Being of low melting point they are exceptionally soluble including solubility in alkylethers alkylamines alkoxyamines aromatic ethers aromatic amines amides esters and hydrocarbon solvents. The latter two species are particularly attractive due to their ability to be dried to sub ppm levels of water. Solvents that are exemplary of the solvents that can be used in the present invention are amino ethers such as BL 19 glymes such as dipropyleneglycoldimethylether e.g. DPGDME pentamethyl diethylene triamine N N dimethylcyclohexylamine N methyldicyclohexylamine Dimethyl 4 morpholine ethamine Anisole methoxybenzene Phenetole ethoxybenzene toluene mesitylene cumene isopropylbenzene p cymene 4 isopropyl toluene 1 3 diisopropylbenzene octane dodecane 1 2 4 trimethylcyclohexane n butylcyclohexane and decahydronaphthalene decalin . The precursors of this application can also be stored and used in stainless steel containers.

The precursors of this application can also be mixed with other suitable metal precursors and the mixture used to deliver both metals simultaneously for the growth of a binary metal oxide or nitride films. For example strontium precursors of this disclosure can be mixed with suitable titanium precursors including imidazolate based titanium precursors for the growth of strontium titanate STO films. Similarly barium precursors of this disclosure can be mixed with suitable strontium precursors including imidazolate based strontium precursors with suitable titanium precursors including imidazolate precursors for the growth of barium strontium titanate BST films. Similarly barium precursors of this disclosure can be mixed with suitable titanium precursors including imidazolate based titanium precursors for the growth of barium titanate BTO films.

The present invention is also a method of depositing a metal containing film by ALD or CVD comprising the use of the metal imidazolate structures of the present invention described above.

Preferably the present invention includes a method of depositing a metal containing film by reacting a metal imidazolate structure of the present invention with an oxidant selected from the group consisting of water alcohol oxygen ozone nitrous oxide nitrogen dioxide hydrogen peroxide or combinations thereof to grow a metal containing film selected from the group consisting of barium oxide strontium oxide magnesium oxide calcium oxide or radium oxide and mixtures thereof using a reactor pressure between 0.001 1000 Torr and a temperature from 0 1000 C.

More preferably this method results in a deposition of barium oxide of 1 Angstrom per cycle. Even more preferably the deposition of barium oxide is 1.5 Angstrom per cycle. Still more preferably the deposition of barium oxide is 2 Angstrom per cycle.

Alternately the method results in the deposition of strontium oxide of 1 Angstrom per cycle. Preferably the deposition of strontium oxide is 1.5 Angstrom per cycle. More preferably the deposition of strontium oxide is 2 Angstrom per cycle.

In one embodiment the method of the present invention includes reacting a Ba and Sr imidazolate structure of the present invention with alternating pulses of titanium precursors selected from the group consisting of titanium alkoxide titanium alkoxide diketonate titanium cyclopentadienyl titanium amide titanium imidazolate and mixtures thereof in an ALD or pulsed CVD mode to grow BST films.

In another embodiment the present invention is a method of reacting a Sr imidazolate structure of the present invention with alternating pulses of titanium precursors selected from the group consisting of titanium alkoxide titanium alkoxide diketonate titanium cyclopentadienyl titanium amide titanium imidazolate and mixtures thereof in an ALD or pulsed CVD mode to grow STO films.

A further embodiment is a method of reacting a Ba imidazolate structure of the present invention with alternating pulses of titanium precursors selected from the group consisting of titanium alkoxide titanium alkoxide diketonate titanium alkoxy ketoester titanium cyclopentadienyl titanium amide titanium imidazolate and mixtures thereof in an ALD or pulsed CVD mode to grow BTO films.

A still further embodiment is a method of reacting a barium imidazolate structure of the present invention with a strontium compound selected from the group consisting of strontium ketoiminate strontium diketonate and mixtures thereof and a titanium compound selected from the group consisting of titanium alkoxide titanium alkoxide diketonate titanium alkoxy ketoester titanium cyclopentadienyl titanium amide and mixtures thereof in an ALD CVD or pulsed CVD to grow films of BST.

Yet another embodiment is a method of reacting an imidazolate structure of claim with halide gases selected from the group consisting of HCl HF SiCl HBr and mixtures thereof to grow MXwhere X halide and M is selected from the group consisting of Ba Sr Mg Ca Ra and mixtures thereof in an ALD CVD or pulsed CVD mode.

A method of synthesizing an imidazolate structure of the present invention by direct metallization of an imidazole with a metal reagent selected from the group consisting of n butyl lithium n hexyl lithium sec butyl lithium tert butyl lithium lithium diisopropylamide potassium hydride sodium hydride sodium metal potassium metal sodium t butoxide potassium t butoxide potassium hexamethyldisilazane sodium hexamethyldisilazane and then reacting the resulting product with a reactant selected from the group consisting of alkaline earth metal iodide alkaline earth metal acetate alkaline earth metal carboxylate alkaline earth metal carbonate alkaline earth metal formate alkaline earth metal bromide alkaline earth metal trifluoroacetate alkaline earth metal hexafluoroacetylacetone alkaline earth metal trifluoroacetylacetonate alkaline earth metal acetyacetonate alkaline earth metal diimine alkaline earth metal ketoimine alkaline earth metal amidinate alkaline earth metal guanidinate and mixtures thereof.

A method of directly synthesizing an imidazolate structure of the present invention by reacting a polylalkylated imidazole using a reagent selected from the group consisting of an alkaline earth metal amide alkaline earth metal phenoxide alkaline earth metal hydroxide alkaline earth metal alkyl alkaline earth metal aryl and mixtures thereof.

In an alternate embodiment the present invention is a method of synthesizing an imidazolate structure of the present invention by reaction of an imidazole with an alkaline earth metal in the presence of ammonia.

A further alternate is a method of synthesizing an imidazolate structure of the present invention by reacting an imidazole with an alkaline earth metal in the presence of an amine with ammonia.

The present invention is also a method to grow dielectric films selected from the group consisting of STO and BST using the mixture of metal imidazolates of the present invention to form micro electronic devices selected form the group consisting of dynamic random access memory DRAM memory cells and pyrometric devices.

Alternately the present invention is a method of manufacturing microelectronic devices selected from the group consisting of non volatile ferroelectric microelectronic memory devices display phosphors for electroluminescent displays high Tc superconducting devices using the imidazolate structures of the present invention.

In yet another embodiment the present invention is a method of growing a metal oxide or nitride film by ALD or CVD comprising providing a barium or strontium imidazolate structure of the present invention in conjunction with titanium sources dissolved in a solvent selected from the group consisting of an ether aminoether amide ester aromatic or hydrocarbon solvent and delivering the resulting solution by a DLI system to provide a vapor stream of the resulting solution to grow the metal oxide or nitride film by ALD or CVD.

5.44 g 0.04 moles of 2 2 dimethylpropanimideamide hydrochloride were mixed with 7.2 g 0.04 moles of 1 bromopinacolone and 11.2 g of triethylamine in 16.0 g of diethylformamide DEF and stirred at room temperature for 7 days. The reaction mixture was then poured into water and extracted three times with 50 ml units of hexane. The hexane fractions were combined and washed three times with 50 ml aliquots of water. The hexane layer was then stirred with 5 g of anhydrous magnesium sulfate over night. The hexane was then removed by vacuum down to a volume of 5 ml to yield a fine suspension. This was filtered and the resulting solid washed with fresh hexane to yield 4.22 g 59 theoretical of colorless fine crystalline product 99 pure by Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry gave a parent ion at 180 amu. Structure confirmed by X ray crystallography see 

2 chloro 2 methylpropane 75 g 0.8 mol was slowly added to magnesium pellets 19.5 g 0.8 mol in 800 mL of THF to make the Grignard reagent tBuMgCl. This was added slowly to a mixture of cuprous chloride 49.5 g 0.50 mol and tertbutylacetylchloride 67.25 g 0.50 mol cooled to 50 C. in dry ice. After addition the mixture was allowed to warm up to room temperature overnight. Most of the THF was removed by decreased pressure followed by the addition of 500 mL of hexanes and 200 mL of 2M HCl. This mixture was filtered to remove the solid byproducts. The aqueous layer was washed 3 with 100 mL of hexanes the hexanes layer washed 3 with 200 mL of 2M HCl 2 with 200 mL of NaHCO water 1 with 200 mL of water and finally 1 with 200 mL of NaCl water. The product mixture was then dried for an hour in MgSO which was subsequently removed by filtration. The hexane was then removed by atmospheric distillation.

Product identified by Mass Spectrum parent ion of 156 mu NMR consistent with literature D. P Bauer J. Org. Chem. Vol. 40 No. 13 1975 1990 1992.

24 g of N bromosuccinimide 0.1344 mol was added to 10 g of 2 2 5 5 Tetramethyl 3 hexanone 0.064 mol in 50 mL of trimethylacetonitrile. To this mixture 10 g of ammonium acetate 0.1344 mol was added within 5 minutes. This mixture was refluxed overnight then filtered. To the filtrate 24 g of N bromosuccinimide 0.1344 mol and 10 g of ammonium acetate 0.1344 mol was added then refluxed for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled 600 mL of water added and the resulting mixture then filtered. The aqueous layer was washed three times with 50 ml of hexanes. The hexane fractions were then combined washed three times with 50 ml of with water then dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Product was collected by distilling off the hexane at atmospheric pressure.

Product identified by Mass Spectrum parent ion of 236 mu NMR consistent with literature D. P Bauer J. Org. Chem. Vol. 40 No. 13 1975 1990 1992 Procedure Reference K. Tanemura Chem. Commun. 2004 470 471.

5 g 0.125 mol of sodium hydroxide powder was added to 11.6 g 0.05 mol of 4 Bromo 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 hexanone in 10 g of dry diethylformamide. This reaction mixture was heated to 110 C. for 2 hours cooled to room temperature and 600 mL of water and 200 mL of hexanes added. The hexane layer was collected and the aqueous layer was washed three times with 50 ml of additional hexanes. The hexanes fractions were then combined washed three times with 50 ml water then dried with MgSO. The product was collected as a crystalline solid after hexanes removal by atmospheric distillation.

7.8 g 0.045 moles of 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 4 hydroxy 3 hexanone were dissolved in 90 ml of hexane and stirred vigorously with 157 ml of 1M aqueous potassium permanganate solution containing 1.8 g 0.045 moles of sodium hydroxide. This mixture was then refluxed overnight. The mixture was then cooled to room temperature and the hexane layer separated. The aqueous layer was then extracted three times with 50 ml of hexane. The hexane solutions were then combined and washed three times with 50 ml of pure water before drying over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. The mixture was then filtered and the hexane distilled off at atmospheric pressure to yield 6.3 g of 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 4 hexanedione 82 of theoretical .

Product identified by GCMS parent ion 170 mu consistent with literature results G. A. Olah and A. Wu J. Org. Chem. 56 904 906 1991 .

1.6 g 0.0094 moles of 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 4 hexanedione were mixed with 2.9 g 0.037 moles of ammonium acetate 3.4 g 0.057 moles of acetic acid and 1.6 g 0.019 moles of pivaldehyde and heated to 13 C. for 72 hrs in a sealed container. This mixture was then cooled and slowly added to an excess of aqueous saturated sodium bicarbonate solution. The resulting mixture was extracted with 3 50 ml of hexane. The hexane fractions were combined washed three time with 20 ml aliquots of pure water then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. Evaporation of hexane yielded crude 2 4 5 tri tert butylimidazole as its hydrate two molecules of imidazole per water molecule . This product was then dried by refluxing it in 50 ml of hexamethyldisilazane for 48 hrs.

The hexamethyldisilazane and hexamethyldisiloxane formed from the drying process was then evaporated and the resulting solid sublimed at 60 C to give colorless crystals yield 1.3 g 58 of theoretical .

In addition to the synthesis routes of this disclosure that are used to prepare sterically hindered imidazoles a plurality of other routes are anticipated. These include conceptually deconstructing the five membered imidazole ring by breaking specific ring bonds to yield fragments bearing the required bulky groups. A synthesis of these fragments is then developed followed by a means of coupling them together to form the final imidazole product.

Under an atmosphere of nitrogen 0.292 g 0.00124 moles of dry 2 4 5 tri tert butylimidazole were dissolved into 5 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran with stirring. To this was added a solution of 0.37 g 0.00062 moles of barium bis hexamethyldisilazane bis tetrahydrofuran dissolved in 5 ml of tetrahydrofuran. This mixture was stirred for 3 hours at room temperature. The tetrahydrofuran and by product hexamethyldisilazane were then evaporated by application of vacuum and the resulting white solid dissolved into 1 ml of dry hexane. The resulting solution was then concentrated by boiling to 0.5 ml and allowed to stand at room temperature. This yielded 0.3 g 83 of theoretical of barium bis 2 4 5 tri tert butylimidazolate tetrahydrofuran as colorless prisms. Structure confirmed by single crystal X ray diffraction see .

Under an atmosphere of nitrogen 1.18 g 0.005 moles of 2 4 5 tri tert butylimidazole were dissolved in 10 ml of dry hexane and 0.4 g 0.0025 moles of bis 2 N N dimethylamino ethyl ether. To this mixture a solution of 1.5 g 0.0025 moles of barium bis hexamethyldisilazane bis tetrahydrofuran dissolved in 10 ml of dry hexane was added dropwise and the mixture stirred overnight. The solvents were then removed under vacuum and the resulting solid sublimed twice at 160 C. to yield 0.6 g 47 of theoretical of snow white solid melting point MPt 150 C. characterized by X ray crystallography see .

The evaporation characteristics of di barium tetra 2 4 5 tri tert butylimidazolate was determined by TGA resulting in only 3.5 weight residue as shown in .

Under an atmosphere of nitrogen 1.18 g 0.005 moles of 2 4 5 tri tert butylimidazole were dissolved in 10 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran. 1.38 g 0.0025 moles of strontium bis hexamethyldisilazane bis tetrahydrofuran were then dissolved in 10 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and this solution was added dropwise with stirring to the 2 4 5 tri tert butylimidazole solution and the resulting mixture stirred overnight. The solvents were then removed under vacuum and the resulting solid sublimed twice at 150 C to yield 0.5 g 36 of theoretical of snow white solid MPt 149 C. characterized by X ray crystallography see .

Under a blanket of nitrogen 18.72 g 0.78 moles of magnesium turnings in 780 ml of tetrahydrofuran were activated by the addition of 0.5 ml of 1 2 dibromoethane.

2 chloro 2 methyl butane 96 mL 0.78 mol were then slowly added resulting in the gradual formation of Grignard reagent accompanied by a reaction exotherm. This Grignard reagent was then slowly added to a mixture of 112 g 0.78 mol of copper bromide and 67 g 0.78 mol of lithium bromide dissolved in 340 mL of terahydrofuran cooled to 65 C. After all the Grignard was added and the temperature stabilized at 65 C. 26 mL 0.30 mol of oxalyl chloride in 100 mL of tetrahydrofuran was added slowly maintaining mixture temperature at 65 C. The resulting mixture was stirred for an hour at 65 C. then warmed up to room temperature overnight. 90 of the tetrahydrofuran THF was then removed by vacuum. 500 ml of hexane and 300 mL of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride were then added to the resultant slurry and the hexane layer separated. The aqueous layer was then further extracted with three 200 ml lots of hexane. The combined hexane layers were then washed with 200 mL of water then dried over 10 g of anhydrous magnesium sulfate for one hour. The magnesium sulfate was then filtered off and the hexane distilled off at atmospheric pressure to yield the crude product diketone as an orange red liquid. Yield 32.2 g 54 of theoretical 

A mixture of 32.3 g 0.163 mol of 3 6 6 tetramethyl 4 5 octanedione 50 g 0.652 mol of ammonium acetate 36 mL 0.326 mol of pivaldehyde and 56 mL 0.978 mol of acetic acid was heated to 200 C. in a sealed stainless steel vessel for 3 days. The resulting product mixture was neutralized with sodium bicarbonate solution then extracted with four 200 ml lots of hexane. The combined hexane layers were washed 3 with 100 mL of water then 100 ml of saturated sodium chloride solution. 10 g of anhydrous magnesium sulfate was added and stirred overnight. Filtration followed by removal of hexane by vacuum yielded the crude product as a yellow oil. Yield 31.5 g 73 of theoretical .

Under a blanket of nitrogen 1.13 g 0.002 moles of strontium bis hexamethyldisiylamide bis tetrahydrofuran dissolved in 20 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran were added dropwise over a five minute period at room temperature to 1.08 g 0.004 moles of 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazole dissolved in 20 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran and the resulting mixture stirred for two hours. The THF and by product hexamethyldisilazane were then removed under vacuum. The resulting crude product was then distilled under vacuum at 20 C. to yield 0.5 g of a colorless glassy solid. This was recrystallized in hexane to yield colorless prisms MPt 103C.

Under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen a solution of 6.0 g 0.01 moles of barium bis hexamethyldisilazane bis tetrahydrofuran dissolved in 15 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran were added dropwise to 5.28 g 0.02 moles of 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazole dissolved in 30 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran. The resulting mixture was stirred overnight after which the solvent and hexamethyldisilazane were removed by vacuum. The resulting waxy solid was then vacuum distilled at to 195 C. to give a clear colorless liquid distillate of di barium tetra 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate which solidified after standing overnight. Yield 4.8 g 78 . Structure proven by X ray . MPt 65.3 C.

15 g 0.09 moles of 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 4 hexanedione were mixed with 42 g 0.55 moles of ammonium acetate 32 g 0.53 moles of acetic acid and 20.52 g 0.18 moles of 2 2 dimethylvaleraldehyde and heated to 20 C. for 48 hrs in a sealed container. This mixture was then cooled to 90 C. and approximately 90 of the acetic acid distilled off under reduced pressure. The residual crude product was then diluted with approximately 100 ml of hexane and neutralized to pH 7 using saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution with strong stirring. The resulting mixture was extracted with 3 200 ml of hexane. The hexane fractions were combined washed three times with 50 ml aliquots of pure water then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. After overnight stirring the solution was then decanted off the magnesium sulfate and then stood over molecular sieves overnight. The molecular sieves were then removed the hexane distilled off at atmospheric pressure and the resulting product then distilled at 150 C. under 100 mTorr of pressure. Yield 13.5 g 57 of theoretical of 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di tert butylimidazole.

Under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen a solution of 5.54 g 0.01 moles of strontium bis hexamethyldisilazane bis tetrahydrofuran dissolved in 15 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran were added dropwise to 5.06 g 0.019 moles of 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylbutyl imidazole dissolved in 30 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran. The resulting mixture was stirred for 12 days at room temperature after which the solvent and hexamethyldisilazane were removed by vacuum. The resulting crude product was vacuum distilled at 100 mTorr collecting the main fraction of di strontium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di tert butylimidazolate from 150 to 205 C. as a clear liquid which solidified into a glass at room temperature slowly crystallizing overnight. Yield 3.5 g 60 of theoretical . Structure proven by single crystal X ray diffraction using a crystal grown from a hexane solution see . TGA DSC showed a melting point of 99.8 C. and an involatile residue of 8.17 wt .

Under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen a solution of 6.03 g 0.01 moles of barium bis hexamethyldisilazane bis tetrahydrofuran dissolved in 15 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran were added dropwise to 5.28 g 0.019 moles of 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di tert butylimidazole dissolved in 30 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran. The resulting mixture was stirred for 7 days at room temperature after which the solvent and hexamethyldisilazane were removed by vacuum. The resulting crude product vacuum distilled at 50 mTorr collecting the main fraction of di strontium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di tert butylimidazolate from 170 to 180 C. as a clear liquid which crystallized upon cooling to room temperature. Yield 4.8 g 72 of theoretical . Structure proven by single crystal X ray diffraction using a crystal grown from a hexane solution see . TGA DSC showed a melting point of 128 C. and an involatile residue of only 2.99 wt .

20 g 0.1 moles of 3 3 6 6 tetramethyl 4 5 octanedione were mixed with 46 g 0.6 moles of ammonium acetate 30 g 0.6 moles of acetic acid and 11.4 g 0.1 moles of 2 2 dimethylvaleraldehyde and heated to 200 C. for 48 hrs in a sealed container. This mixture was then cooled to 90 C. and approximately 90 of the acetic acid distilled off under reduced pressure. The residual crude product was then diluted with approximately 100 ml of hexane and neutralized to pH 7 using saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution with strong stirring. The resulting mixture was extracted with 3 200 ml of hexane. The hexane fractions were combined washed three times with 50 ml aliquots of pure water then dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. After overnight stirring the solution was then decanted off the magnesium sulfate and dried molecular sieves were added. After overnight standing the molecular sieves were removed the hexane distilled off at atmospheric pressure and the resulting product then distilled at 150 C. under 100 mTorr of pressure. Yield 15 g 51 of theoretical of 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazole.

Under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen a solution of 7.46 g 0.0135 moles of strontium bis hexamethyldisilazane bis tetrahydrofuran dissolved in 50 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran were added dropwise to 7.88 gg 0.0269 moles of 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazole dissolved in 50 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran. The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 days at room temperature after which the solvent and hexamethyldisilazane were removed by vacuum. The resulting crude product vacuum distilled at 50 mTorr collecting the main fraction of di strontium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate 

Under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen a solution of 7.0 g 0.0116 moles of barium bis hexamethyldisilazane bis tetrahydrofuran dissolved in 50 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran were added dropwise to 8.11 g 0.0277 moles of 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazole 19 excess dissolved in 50 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran. The resulting mixture was stirred for 2 days at room temperature after which the solvent and hexamethyldisilazane were removed by vacuum. The product and excess 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazole were then vacuum distilled out of the crude reaction product at 200 C. 50 mTorr. The excess imidazole ligand was then removed by vacuum distillation at 120 C. to yield di barium tetra 2 1 1 dimethylbutyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate as a thick viscous amber liquid which slowly crystallized upon standing. Mpt 36 C. yield 5.6 g 62 . Recrystallization from hexane yielded colorless crystals MPt 56.4 C. TGA residue 6.77 wt . H NMR 500 MHz CD 0.84 t 12H 0.93 t 6H 1.22 1.35 m 4H 1.39 s 24H 1.53 s 12H 1.7 1.8 m 12H 

Under an atmosphere of dry nitrogen 0.6 g 0.002 moles of 2 4 5 triphenylimidazole were dissolved in 10 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran. A solution of 0.6 g 0.001 moles of barium bis hexamethyldisilazane bis tetrahydrofuran dissolved in 10 ml of dry tetrahydrofuran was then prepared and added to the 2 4 5 triphenylimidazole solution and the resulting mixture stirred overnight. The solvent and hexamethyldisilazane were then removed under vacuum yielding a thick viscous tar which eventually solidified. Application of vacuum and heat 200 C. did not liberate any volatile products.

Under an atmosphere of nitrogen 50 g of di strontium tetra 2 tert butyl 4 5 di 1 1 dimethylpropyl imidazolate were loaded into a dry stainless steel container. This container was then heated to 170 C. and argon carrier gas was intermittently flowed through it at a rate of 100 sccm to achieve ALD pulses of the precursor varying from 6 to 16 seconds. These precursor pulses were directed into an ALD chamber containing a silicon substrate heated from 300 400 C. Each precursor pulse was followed by a purging pulse of argon gas then followed with a pulse of ozone. shows the results achieved for SrO deposition at 350 C. substrate temperature using 8 and 10 second precursor pulses which shows a linear ALD relationship between film growth and total number of precursor pulses giving a growth rate of 2.3A cycle of SrO. Using this same deposition procedure at a substrate temperature of 375 C. yielded the SrO film shown in the upper portion of which is clearly crystalline and the lower portion of which is amorphous. Note that a titanium oxide protective layer is deposited on top of the SrO. In the crystalline region it is seen that there are 24 layers of SrO per 66 Angstroms to yield a spacing of 2.75 Angstroms consistent with 001 SrO. XPS shown in which indicates the film to be substantially pure strontium oxide. The low level of carbon throughout the film is partially attributable to post deposition reaction with atmospheric carbon dioxide to yield strontium carbonate.

100 cycles of 5 seconds precursor 10 seconds argon purge using argon as in Example 15 but no ozone was used to oxidize adsorbed precursor. Substrates were processed from 250 400 C. As shows there is no significant thermal deposition occurring until 350 C. indicating excellent stability for ALD.

