---

title: Identity abstraction providing limited cross-domain access
abstract: A system is provided. The system comprises a processor, a memory, and an authorization application stored in the memory that, when executed by the processor, receives a first message from a first client device associated with a first domain, the first message containing a request to emulate a second client device associated with a second domain. The system also determines authorization for the first device to emulate the second device in the second domain. The system also associates an electronic cookie with a browser session initiated by the first device, the electronic cookie associated with access to the second domain. The system also provides the first device authorization to emulate the second device in the second domain using a generic login account wherein the second domain provides the first device limited cross-domain access based on the electronic cookie to targeted information associated with the second device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08875243&OS=08875243&RS=08875243
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08875243
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110127
---
Customers of large organizations attempting to access the organizations Internet web sites may have a variety of experiences. Difficulties encountered may comprise inability to access portions of sites to which the customers believe they have rightful access. Customers may receive repeated requests for credentials or may receive inappropriate or confusing error messages. The web site may provide instructions that are incomplete misleading or not applicable to the customer. A customer may be trying to access a web site of an organization and enter credentials that the site does not accept for unknown reasons. The site may be difficult for a user to view or otherwise access because of settings in the browser application executing on the user s computer or other device may not support aspects of the web site s presentation or other functionality. Browser settings for graphics may be inappropriate or the browser may not be configured to accept cookies. Adjusting browser settings may be necessary. The browser may not be supported for access to the web site or may not have the technical capabilities needed to access the portions of the web site desired by the user. The user s computer may have been invaded by a virus or malware and the user may need to take corrective action.

In an embodiment a system is provided. The system comprises a processor a memory and an authorization application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor receives a first message from a first client device associated with a first domain the first message containing a request to emulate a second client device associated with a second domain. The system also determines authorization for the first client device to emulate the second client device in the second domain. The system also associates an electronic cookie with a browser session initiated by the first client device the electronic cookie associated with access to the second domain. The system also provides the first client device authorization to emulate the second client device in the second domain using a generic login account wherein the second domain provides the first client device limited cross domain access based on the electronic cookie to targeted information associated with the second client device.

In an embodiment a processor implemented method is provided. The method comprises an authorization server receiving an authentication token contained in a first message from a first client device the authentication token associated with access to a first domain by the first client device. The method also comprises the authorization server determining the identity of a second client device designated in the first message wherein the first message contains a request for the first client device to emulate the second device in a second domain and wherein authorization to emulate is indicated by the authentication token. The method also comprises the authorization server accessing a file describing permitted emulations of client devices associated with the second domain by client devices associated with the first domain. The method also comprises the authorization server determining from the file and from the authentication token that the first client device is authorized to emulate the second client device in the second domain. The method also comprises the authorization server providing the first client device limited authorization to emulate the second client device in the second domain.

In an embodiment a processor implemented method is provided. The method comprises an authorization server activating an application programming interface API based on receiving a first message from a client device authenticated in a first domain. The method also comprises the authorization server creating a first session cookie for a second domain the first session cookie permitting the client device limited access to resources in the second domain via a browser session initiated by the client device. The method also comprises the authorization server causing a gateway access component to initialize a cookie provider functionality wherein the cookie provider functionality causes a second session cookie to be created in a third domain based on a browser redirection by the client device.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

The present disclosure teaches a system and methods that promote a first client device with access normally confined to resources associated with a first domain to be provided limited access to resources available to a second client device associated with a second domain. The identity of the first client device and its user may be abstracted out providing a generic account limited access to the second domain. The first device is provided the ability to effectively emulate the second device on a limited basis in the second domain. The first device may use the emulation to observe conditions and recreate problems experienced by the second device in the second domain. By taking on aspects of the identity of the second device the first device may directly view experience and gain a better understanding of the problems of the second device. The user of the first device may more readily and effectively develop strategies and solutions to fix the problems.

A large organization for example a telecommunications services provider may segregate internal users of its resources from external users of its resources. The provider may segregate resources for example web sites used by customer care representatives from other resources used by customers. While some common resources may be used by both care representatives and customers the interfaces and access paths used by each group may be different and hence the experiences of each group may be difficult to compare for troubleshooting and problem resolution purposes. When a customer experiences a problem with a resource associated with its subscribed communication services the telecommunications services provider may desire its customer care function to directly observe the problem as experienced by the customer. The present disclosure teaches providing a care representative or other user of the first device the limited ability to emulate the customer in the customer s resource domain. This may promote the representative to directly observe and experience the customer s problems from the customer s perspective. The representative may gain insights not otherwise readily available and may more accurately develop resolution strategies and solutions.

The first client device described above that may be used by the employee may present an authentication token to an application provided herein. The token may contain parameters that indicate to the application that the first device may emulate a second device that accesses resources associated with a second domain. The token may provide an instruction to permit the first device to emulate the other device in the second domain to which the first device may not normally have access. After verification an application programming interface API provided by the application may create a session cookie that effectively provides the first device a generic identity and limited access to resources associated with the second domain. The application may leverage the functionality of a gateway access component to associate the session cookie with the first device and with the resources associated with the second domain accessed by the customer. The creation and placement of the session cookie enables the first device to access resources in the second domain resources with which the second device may be experiencing problems. Customer tools in the second domain to which the first device may not normally have access in its home first domain may become available to the first device in the second domain. The tools may be useful to the first device in diagnosing problems reported by the second device. The application also logs the activities of the first device interacting with resources and other components associated with the second domain. When the first device completes its session navigating about and working with resources associated with the second domain the session cookie is deleted and the second domain is fully secured from outside access.

Turning now to a system is described. The system comprises an authorization server gateway access components session cookies an authorization application an application programming interface a database domains client devices and a network . The domains may be referred to as the first domain the second domain and the third domain respectively. The client devices may be referred to as the first client device and the second client device respectively.

The authorization server is a computer system. Computer systems are described in detail hereinafter. The authorization application executes on the authorization server . The authorization application receives requests from the first client device to be provided limited access to resources associated with the second domain . The first client device may provide an authentication token to the authorization application in the request. The authorization application may access a file and verify that the first client device may be permitted limited access to selected resources in the second domain . An application programming interface associated with the authorization application may based on the receipt of the authentication token and the verification generate a session cookie for use with specific resources associated with the second domain . The authentication application may leverage the capabilities of the gateway access component in the placement of the session cookie . The session cookie may allow the first client device to emulate the second client device in the second domain on a limited basis. The first client device temporarily may be provided a generic user account by the application programming interface for accessing the second domain . The first client device is also provided authorization via the session cookie to view and access resources on a limited basis in the second domain as the resources are visible and accessible in the second domain to the second client device . This may promote the user of the first client device to view configurations and problems from the perspective of the user of the second client device and potentially provide assistance. The temporary access provided herein may permit the first client device to effectively experience problems in the second domain as the second client device experiences them. This may permit the user of the first client device to gain insights into the problems and develop solutions that may not be readily possible without the teachings provided herein.

The first client device through its standard authentication may not be able to access resources in the second domain . The first client device may normally authenticate and access resources for example the web server associated exclusively with the first domain . The second client device may likewise authenticate and access resources for example the web server associated exclusively with the second domain . Organizations as a matter of policy may segregate user access to different domains and use the segregation to restrict access to resources. This policy for example may allow an organization to segregate the access granted to internal users for example employees from the access granted to external users for example customers. The present disclosure teaches that the user of the first client device may access resources in the second domain to provide assistance to view problems experienced by the second client device in the second domain . Users and devices for example the first client device accessing resources associated with the first domain may not normally be provided access to resources associated with the second domain . Conversely users and devices for example the second client device accessing resources associated with the second domain may not normally be provided access to resources associated with the first domain . This segregation of users devices and other objects and resources may be of value to an organization seeking to enforce a plurality of security and other policies.

A telecommunications service provider for example may provide a plurality of wireless services to customers under subscription arrangements and may sell a plurality of portable and other electronic devices for use in accessing the wireless services. The telecommunications service provider may employ a plurality of customer care representatives that provide remote technical support product information and other assistance to customers. The customer care representatives may work in a call center environment and may assist customers in voice or data sessions. The telecommunications service provider may segregate the network based resources it makes available to internal users from the resources that external users for example customers may view and use. The telecommunications service provider may decide to segregate resources used by customer care representatives from resources that its customers may access. The customers may be allowed access to portions of a web site associated with externally facing or publicly accessible domains while the customer care representatives may have access to other portions of the web site that are internally facing and not accessible to the public. In an embodiment the first domain and the second domain may be associated with separate portions of a single web site or other internet resource wherein the portions are segregated from each other using addressing or other methods. Client devices associated with different domains alternatively may not share some resources on a restricted basis and may instead access separate and fully segregated resources.

When customers encounter problems using web based and other applications provided by the telecommunications service provider the customers may report the problems to a customer care function. Because a care representative may not access the web based customer applications in the same manner that the customer does and may in some instances not access them at all the care representative may have difficulty envisioning the problem and may be unable to recreate the problem. Even if the care representative recreates the problem it may be done in a laboratory or test environment that is sufficiently different from the customer s environment that the care representative s observations suggestions and resolution strategies may be of limited value in addressing the customer s problem. The present disclosure teaches a system and methods for allowing the customer care representative to access the environment of the customer on a limited basis. The care representative may access tools specific to the customer environment and may recreate the customer problem as the customer sees and experiences it. The care representative thereby may gain insights into the customer problem that he or she may not otherwise be able to obtain. This may allow the care representative to solve the problem more quickly for the customer and assist in developing a fix such that other customers do not experience the problem in the future. While in the session accessing the customer s view the care representative may have a limited access to the customer s configuration. The care representative may be unable to access the customer s data settings contact lists and other personalized information that may not be relevant to the problem.

The first client device may be used by the care representative and may be used primarily to access the web server associated with the first domain . The second client device may be used by the customer and may be used primarily to access the web server associated with the second domain . The web servers may host a plurality of applications available to users provided access to the respective domains of the web servers . Although the term domain may be used in a plurality of manners in computing and information technology contexts for example authentication of user logins and virtual gathering of objects such as computers and printers in the present disclosure the use of domain may generally be associated with the naming organization and segregation of resources accessible on the Internet and other networks. The telecommunications service provider may choose to direct customer care representatives for example the user of the first client device to access resources associated with the first domain . Access to the first domain may be restricted to employees of the telecommunications service provider. The web server and other resources associated with the first domain may contain confidential and privileged information that the telecommunications service provider may wish not make available to customers and others outside the company. Employees such as customer care representatives likewise may be barred from accessing resources in the second domain that are primarily accessed by customers and parties external to the telecommunications service provider.

The telecommunications service provider may in some embodiments use gateway access components to restrict access to some of its network based resources for example the first domain and the second domain respectively. The gateway access component may comprise a web access management system with which the first client device registers and clears its rights associated with the first domain before being permitted access to the first domain for example the web server . The gateway access component similarly may allow the second client device access to the second domain after verifying the privileges of the second client device for this access. In an embodiment the gateway access components may be commercially available software packages that the authorization application may leverage to provide the limited cross domain access described herein. In an embodiment one function of the gateway access components may be to furnish cookie provider functionality that may be drawn upon by components of the system described herein. While depicts the gateway access components as components of the authorization server in an embodiment the gateway access components may execute on another computer or other device.

When a care representative using the first client device begins working the care representative may access an internally available web or landing page used by a plurality of care representatives for tools and information. The first client device may provide authentication credentials to the gateway access component to receive full access to the internal web page. The web page may be accessible from the web server associated with the first domain . Once cleared by the gateway access component the first client device may be provided access to a plurality of tools information sources and database records to assist customers with problems. The present disclosure also teaches that the first client device may receive a selectable link icon or other object in the web page that may activate some of the functionality taught herein. When the user of the first client device activates the link or icon a message may be sent to the authorization server . The message may contain the authentication token or other information that indicates to the authentication application executing on the authorization server that the user of the first client device seeks to access resources associated with a domain other than the care representative s home first domain . The message also may contain a designation of the second client device and or its user associated with the second domain that the care representative using the first client device may seek to emulate or otherwise assist.

The authentication application receives the message from the first client device and recognizes the authentication token indicating that the first client device seeks to be provided access to resources associated with the second domain . The authentication application also recognizes that the message from the first client device identifies the second client device and or its user that the care representative may seek to emulate in browsing about resources associated with the second domain . The authentication application may access an access file stored in the database . The access file may confirm that the first client device is permitted limited access to resources associated with the second domain . The access file also may describe at least one client device for example the second client device that the first client device may be permitted to emulate on a limited basis in accessing resources associated with the second domain for example the web server . While the first client device may be provided the capability to effectively emulate the second client device on a limited basis the first client device is temporarily provided a generic login account by the application programming interface for access to the second domain . The access file that describes the authorization for the first client device for this access may be provided in the extensible markup language XML format.

The generic login enables the first client device to receive temporary and limited access to the second domain for the defined and narrow purposes of viewing and accessing specific resources available in the second domain to the second client device . The generic login does not provide further privileges beyond the limited access described herein. The account associated with the generic login does not survive the closing of the session in which the first client device presents the authentication token and receives the session cookie . The generic login account does not uniquely represent an individual user and instantiations of the generic login account may be distributed to multiple authorized users of the first client device at a single time. When the user of the first client device presents the authentication token indicating an intention to invoke the processes described herein to receive limited access to the second domain the user is temporarily provided an instantiation of the generic login account and thereby allowed limited access to some of the areas of the second domain that the user of the second client device normally accesses. The session cookie placed by the authorization application and the gateway access component describes the limited access to the resources associated with the second client device . When a user of the first client device completes his or her tasks assisting the user of the client device and closes his or her browser session the instantiation of the generic login account for the user of the first client device is deleted and is not reused.

When submitting the authentication token the first client device identifies the second client device that is to receive assistance. The authorization application reads the access file stored in the database to determine the resources accessible by the second client device that are to be made temporarily available to the first client device . The authorization application links these resources accessible by the second client device to the session cookie temporarily provided to the first client device . The combination of the generic login account and the targeted information of the second client device and their association with limitations on access may promote simplicity of management of the system and reduce risk of unauthorized access. The combination also promotes ease of examination and appropriate use of the targeted information as well as orderly transition out of the second domain by the first client device upon completion of its tasks.

The authentication application may access the application programming interface approximately coincident with reading the access file . Once it is determined that the first client device is authorized to access resources associated with the second domain and may emulate the second client device in doing so the authorization application may cause the application programming interface to create the session cookie for this purpose. The application programming interface creates the session cookie that may be referred to as SessionCookie for use by the first client device in the second domain . This action may take place with the participation or cooperation of the gateway access component whose function is to regulate access to the second domain in a manner similar to how the gateway access component may regulate access to the first domain . The session cookie may be placed in a browser session instantiated by the first client device using the web browser .

The presence of the session cookie in the browser session of the first client device allows the first client device to access the web server and other resources associated with the second domain . When the first client device receives this limited access to the second domain the first client device may be temporarily provided some of the identifying parameters of the second client device that the first client device may use to effectively emulate the second client device in the second domain and provide useful assistance. The functionality of the authentication application invoking the application programming interface and leveraging the gateway access component that effectively guards the second domain may allow access to portlets or access points to the second domain . The portlets may be associated with resources accessible in the second domain for example the web server to which the second client device has access.

In an embodiment the user of the second client device that may be a customer of the telecommunications service provider may be experiencing difficulty with accessing the web server . The web server may be used by customers of the telecommunications service provider to access various services under their subscription arrangements. The web server may provide applications that the second client device may download and install. The web server may provide services that the second client device may access remotely and use once or on a repeated basis. The web server may provide connectivity to sources of information or services provided by other servers or components within or outside the telecommunications service provider. The user of the second client device in interacting with the web server in any of a plurality of manners may be experiencing difficulty. The user may misunderstand instructions or instructions may be nonexistent or poorly documented. The second client device may have received an error message or may have difficulty signing in or otherwise receiving permission to access services provided by the web server .

When the user of the second client device contacts the customer care function of the telecommunications service provider the user may report the problem. While the care representative assigned to work on the problem may understand the problem and may have worked on the problem previously the care representative may be unable to directly observe or experience the problem as the user of the second client device is observing and experiencing the problem. Organizations such as the telecommunications service provider may maintain separation between resources used by internal and external users as discussed previously. The present disclosure provides the care representative using the first client device the ability to observe and experience what the customer using the second client device is experiencing. This may contrast with the first client device attempting to recreate the problem in a lab or simulated environment wherein results may not be reliable. Tools available in the second domain may not be available in the first domain . By permitting the first client device to emulate or effectively take the place of the second client device in accessing the web server in the second domain the authentication application allows the care representative or other user of the first client device to directly experience the problem reported by the user of the second client device . This may promote a more rapid and targeted resolution of the problem.

When the first client device is provided the ability to emulate the second client device the first client device may be provided limited access to the files and other objects associated with the second client device . The data permissions rights contact lists and other items that have been created by or otherwise associated with the second client device may not be available to the first client device during its session in the second domain unless needed to solve the reported problem. The first client device is provided a generic login to the second domain and limited access to tools available in the second domain . Such tools may be unaware that the first client device is effectively visiting from a different domain and do not differentiate between first client device and the second client device .

As long as the session cookie provided by the authentication application leveraging the gateway access component remains associated with the browser session the first client device may continue working on the limited basis with the web server and other resources associated with the second domain . If the user of the first client device closes the browser session or the browser session is closed for some other reason the session cookie may be deleted and the first client device may be disconnected from resources associated with the second domain .

In an embodiment the telecommunications service provider may provide a plurality of web sites and other online resources for subscribers other customers to access. While the web server generally accessed by customers may be associated with the second domain other resources accessed by customers may be associated with other domains for example the third domain that provides access to a web server . Not all resources accessed by customers for example web servers are associated with a single domain. A webserver1.com and a webserver2.com may for example both be accessible to the second client device through its subscription with the telecommunications service provider but be associated with different and separate domains . The care representative using the first client device may need to access more than one web server that may be associated with the domains respectively. The present disclosure promotes the first client device transitioning from the web server to the web server and vice versa without taking extra action as long as the first client device maintains its browser session. When the first client device causes its browser session to transition from the web server to the web server for example the authentication application may detect this action and cause the gateway access component to activate cookie provider functionality. The cookie provider functionality that may interact with a web agent functionality also associated with the gateway access component may cause the session cookie to be instantiated for the third domain where the web server may be accessed. In an embodiment the session cookie may be replicated in the third domain as the session cookie . The session cookie instantiated earlier and associated with the browser session when the first client device initially accessed the second domain is not deleted providing the user of the first client device the flexibility to redirect its browser session back and forth between the web server and the web server .

The authentication application also logs the activity of the first client device during its session with the second domain and the third domain if applicable. The activity logging may be useful when analyzing and auditing actions taken by the first client device in solving a problem and developing practices for solving or circumventing future problems. When the first client device terminates its browser session any session cookie created for access to the second domain and the third domain is deleted. This may occur by action of an application programming interface not shown in .

The present disclosure teaches the authentication application and other components providing a custom application programming interface and leveraging the functionality of the gateway access component to promote the first client device receiving limited specialized access to the second domain and the third domain . In an embodiment the system and the methods taught herein may be referred to as an abstraction service or an abstraction layer. The authentication application may abstract out the identity of the first client device and allow it to be presented to the second domain and its tools under an instantiation of the generic login account as enabled by the session cookie . This permits the first client device to temporarily take on selected properties of the second client device that it seeks to assist.

The present disclosure has used an example describing a customer of a telecommunications service provider encountering difficulties with a resource and receiving assistance from a care representative to elucidate the system and methods taught herein. In an embodiment the organization providing a resource accessed by the client device may not be a telecommunications service provider and may be another organization or provider of web services such as a manufacturer a utility a transportation company a financial services or health care provider or a retailer for example. The organization alternatively may not be a commercial entity and instead may be a governmental or other public agency a non profit organization or a university or other educational provider. In an embodiment the first device may not be used by a user attempting to assist the user of the second device in accessing a resource or solve a problem and instead may have other legitimate and lawful motivation for emulating the second device and accessing resources associated with the second domain and the third domain . In an embodiment the client device may access the functionality taught herein to emulate the client device without the knowledge or authorization of the user of the client device .

The network promotes communication between the components of the system . The network may be any communication network including a public data network PDN a public switched telephone network PSTN a private network and or a combination.

Turning now to a processor implemented method is provided. Beginning at block an authorization server receives an authentication token contained in a first message from a first client device the authentication token associated with access to a first domain by the first client device. At block the authorization server determines the identity of a second client device designated in the first message wherein the first message contains a request for the first client device to emulate the second device in a second domain and wherein authorization to emulate is indicated by the authentication token.

At block the authorization server accesses a file describing permitted emulations of client devices associated with the second domain by client devices associated with the first domain. At block the authorization server determines from the file and from the authentication token that the first client device is authorized to emulate the second client device in the second domain. At block the authorization server provides the first client device limited authorization to emulate the second client device in the second domain.

Turning now to a processor implemented method is provided. Beginning at block an authorization server activates an application programming interface API based on receiving a first message from a client device authenticated in a first domain.

At block the authorization server creates a first session cookie for a second domain the first session cookie permitting the client device limited access to resources in the second domain via a browser session initiated by the client device. At block the authorization server causes a gateway access component to initialize a cookie provider functionality wherein the cookie provider functionality causes a second session cookie to be created in a third domain based on a browser redirection by the client device.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory storage and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in an optical conduit for example an optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein implementing the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data data structures files executable instructions and other information. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

