---

title: Secure distributed single action payment system
abstract: Methods and systems for enabling and performing secured, single action payments from a mobile device are disclosed. One method includes receiving user credentials at an application installed on a mobile device, and transmitting the user credentials from the mobile device to a server alongside a device identifier. The method includes receiving data at least partially defining encrypted personal payment information and saving the encrypted personal payment information in a memory of the mobile device in association with the application. At least prior to receiving a user request to make a payment via the application, the mobile device lacks a decryption key capable of decrypting the encrypted personal payment information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09141945&OS=09141945&RS=09141945
owner: appMobi IPLC, Inc.
number: 09141945
owner_city: Lancaster
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110210
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 418 962 filed Dec. 2 2010 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present application relates generally to electronic payment systems. In particular the present application relates to a secure distributed single action payment system.

Increasingly individuals wish to make payments for goods and services by using mobile devices. When doing so these individuals can make payments by submitting credit card and personal information and confirming payment of a particular amount. When an individual initiates payment that individual typically must enter information identifying that individual as well as a method of payment. This entry process can be time consuming and frustrating for the individual if required to be performed each time an individual wishes to purchase a good or service.

Some existing payment systems attempt to simplify this payment process for the user by storing a user s personal payment information at a central server location from which all items are purchased. This arrangement has the advantage that the user does not need to reenter his her payment information for each purchase. However these systems may not be attractive to some potential users due to concerns regarding potential security shortcomings. For example a user may wish to not have a third party store his her payment information which may lead to data breaches unauthorized charges or other unintended consequences.

In accordance with the following disclosure the above and other issues are addressed by the following 

In a first aspect a method of enabling a single action payment for an item at a mobile device is disclosed. The method includes receiving user credentials at an application installed on a mobile device and transmitting the user credentials from the mobile device to a server alongside a device identifier. The method further includes receiving data at least partially defining encrypted personal payment information and saving the encrypted personal payment information in a memory of the mobile device in association with the application. At least prior to receiving a user request to make a payment via the application the mobile device lacks a decryption key capable of decrypting the encrypted personal payment information.

In a second aspect a method of enabling a single action payment for an item at a server communicatively connected to a mobile device is disclosed. The method includes receiving at the server a set of user credentials and a device identifier associated with the mobile device from an application on the mobile device and transmitting data from a server at least partially defining encrypted personal payment information. The method further includes cooperating with the mobile device to decrypt the encrypted personal payment information wherein the decrypted personal payment information is useable to initiate a payment transaction.

In a third aspect a method of paying for an item is disclosed. The method includes receiving user credentials at an application installed on a mobile device and transmitting the user credentials from the mobile device to a server. The method further includes receiving data from a server at least partially defining encrypted personal payment information and receiving a request to make payment for an item. The method also includes transmitting encrypted personal payment information to the server decrypting the personal payment information at the server and transmitting the personal payment information from the server to a payment authority thereby initiating a payment transaction.

In a fourth aspect a secure distributed single action payment system is disclosed. The system includes a mobile device comprising a programmable circuit and a memory the memory configured to store an application within which payments can be requested. The programmable circuit is configured to execute program instructions which when executed cause the mobile device to receive user credentials at an application installed in the memory of the mobile device transmit the user credentials from the mobile device to a server alongside a device identifier and save encrypted personal payment information in the memory in association with the application. The system further includes a server communicatively connected to the mobile device the server configured to execute program instructions which when executed cause the server to transmit data at least partially defining the encrypted personal payment information. At least prior to receiving a user request to make a payment via the application the mobile device lacks a decryption key capable of decrypting the encrypted personal payment information.

Further modifications and variations of the invention may be apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading this specification and can be made without departing from its spirit and scope. The invention is therefore to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which the claims are entitled.

Various embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals represent like parts and assemblies throughout the several views. Reference to various embodiments does not limit the scope of the invention which is limited only by the scope of the claims attached hereto. Additionally any examples set forth in this specification are not intended to be limiting and merely set forth some of the many possible embodiments for the claimed invention.

The logical operations of the various embodiments of the disclosure described herein are implemented as 1 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a programmable circuit within a computer and or 2 a sequence of computer implemented steps operations or procedures running on a programmable circuit within a directory system database or compiler.

In general the present disclosure relates to systems and methods that allow individuals e.g. users to pay for goods and services by using a device such as a mobile device smart phone tablet or computer in such a way that no centralized list of credit card numbers belonging to one or more users is ever created on a single server while concurrently avoiding user reentry of payment information for each desired purchase. In some aspects a user s personal payment information is stored on that user s computing device in encrypted form in any application made using the program interfaces of the code of the system disclosed herein. When a purchase is requested for example due to a single action by that user the encrypted personal payment information can be accessed and submitted to a payment authority to initiate the purchase transaction.

As used herein the term Personal Payment Information or PPI as used herein means the mechanism or information used by a user to pay for goods or services online. In various embodiments described herein Personal Payment Information can include a credit card number or alternatively some other form of funding account such as information for a checking account or credentials for any account like a PayPal account which fund the transaction.

As used herein the term or is an inclusive or operator and is equivalent to the term and or unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term based on is not exclusive and allows for being based on additional factors not described unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Additionally the meaning of a an and the include plural references and the meaning of in includes in and on. 

Referring now to a schematic diagram of an example network is shown in which aspects of the present disclosure can be implemented. The network includes various entities involved in an individual user s purchase of an item whether a good or service provided to the user.

In the embodiment shown the network includes a mobile device communicatively connected to a payment management server via a network shown as the Internet . The mobile device can include one or more applications stored thereon referred to collectively as applications . Within each application a user can select a payment option for an item such as good or services presented within that application or external to the application . The application may be any program written to run on the device so long as the application uses the program interfaces of the code of the system of the present disclosure. This code may be incorporated in a program using techniques well known in the art such as though an application programming interface API or software development kit SDK .

In certain embodiments one or more of the applications can include therein encrypted PPI useable to initiate a secure one tap or one click payment operation from the mobile device. Use of such information is discussed further below in connection with the flowcharts of .

The payment management server can take any of a number of forms and typically includes one or more computing devices such as that illustrated in connection with below. Generally the payment management server maintains a listing of known users and known devices and manages encryption and decryption keys used to access PPI. The payment management server determines whether known users should be allowed access to decrypted PPI through use and release of decryption keys. For example an application on the mobile device containing encrypted PPI may request to initiate payment and if the payment management server determines that the user of that application is an authorized user the payment management server could either decrypt received encrypted PPI or could transmit a decryption key to the mobile device for use in decrypting the encrypted PPI.

In the various embodiments of the present disclosure the payment management server can utilize a wide range of types of encryption keys such as a public private key pair or symmetric keys generated using various encryption algorithms. The details of encryption key security are well known in the art.

Additionally when communicating with the payment management server in some embodiments every individual user has a unique username and password specific to the system of the present disclosure. In such embodiments multiple applications using the API s of the system of the present disclosure would prompt the user to use the same username for purposes of making and managing payments regardless of whether the applications were on one or more devices. An individual s username need not be the same as is used within each of the programs for purposes other than payments within the context of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments the payment management server could be located in a Cloud. Cloud as used in the present disclosure refers to a set of virtualized computing resources whereby shared resources software and information are provided to computers and other devices on demand. In the Cloud the resources that might normally be associated with one server could still represent themselves in the same manner although in actuality the resources are served by fractional resources on a single server or even by multiple servers in collaboration.

In embodiments where a Cloud is used the user could also have a personal storage locker at a storage area separate from the payment management server which represents a location at which that user s information including PPI can be stored. The Cloud could be operated for example by the entity that created application . Alternatively the Cloud could be operated by a separate party such as for instance a cloud provider like Amazon AWS a carrier network or a licensee of the payment system. Further details regarding the personal storage locker are provided in connection with below.

A payment authority is communicatively interconnected to the network and is generally configured to receive payment information from users or other entities defining transactions which have taken place. In various embodiments described herein the payment authority can be a credit card payment processor such as a bank or other financial institution. In other embodiments the payment authority can be another type of payment account administrator for example Paypal or a checking account manager.

A second device is also connected to the network and can be any of a number of types of computing devices such as that illustrated in connection with below. In operation the mobile device and second device both communicate with server to facilitate payment for items by a user. As such the second device also has an application stored thereon which is useable to initiate payment for an item analogously to the applications stored on the mobile device .

Mobile device and second device may also communicate with a storage area which may be the location of personal storage locker described in further detail in connection with below. The storage area can include separate personal storage lockers each of which stores a user s personal payment information and other personal information and preferably remains under access control of the user and not the entity controlling the payment management server . In various embodiments the storage area acts as a secure second computing device at which specific user information including PPI can be stored.

Referring again to the payment management server this server generally tracks authorized users and holders of encrypted PPI as well as manages distribution of encryption keys and decryption keys used for securing the PPI. As such the payment management server in the example shown includes a user code table a device code table an optional device application pair code table and an encryption key manager . The user code table stores a listing of unique user identities for example based on a user s login credentials.

The device code table stores unique device codes for each device and the device application pair code table optionally stores unique codes for each device application pair useable to distinguish at the payment management server among multiple applications on a same device. Use of the device codes and device application pair codes are discussed further below.

The encryption key manager generates encryption key pairs useable to encrypt a user s PPI and to transmit encryption and decryption keys depending upon the specific user and type of key needed using the methods and systems described herein. Additional details regarding use of encryption keys are discussed below in connection with .

Referring now to schematic diagrams illustrating shared payment information are illustrated. is a schematic diagram of shared payment information between applications of a single device while illustrates shared payment information between applications on different devices. Through sharing of encrypted payment information between devices the overall payment systems of the present disclosure can avoid storage of PPI at a single location which mitigates security concerns.

Referring now specifically to a first example shared payment information arrangement is shown. In this arrangement the mobile device is interconnected to the payment management server . The mobile device includes two applications of which only one has encrypted PPI shown in this embodiment as application . When a user wishes to make payment from within application a request for authorization is sent to the payment management server including the user s credentials and an identifier of the mobile device . Because application lacks the encrypted PPI e.g. because this is the first time that the application has been used by that particular user and therefore the user has not yet entered his her preferred PPI the payment management server recognizes the user as authorized and the mobile device as including another application having previously been authorized i.e. application and therefore indicates to the mobile device to obtain the encrypted PPI from application for use in application . Upon receiving a subsequent request to initiate payment from the user the application will have the encrypted PPI stored within it or share it from a common location with application and therefore can directly cooperate with the payment management server to decrypt the encrypted PPI and forward it to the relevant payment authority defined in the now decrypted PPI. In an alternative embodiment application may receive the PPI from application in unencrypted form and use the PPI for a single transaction without further storing it.

In a second example shared payment information arrangement is shown in which the mobile device includes only a single application . In this arrangement when a user wishes to make payment from within application a request for authorization is sent to the payment management server including the user s credentials and an identifier of the mobile device . Because application lacks the encrypted PPI e.g. because this is the first time that the application has been used by that particular user and therefore the user has not yet entered his her preferred PPI into that application the payment management server recognizes the user as authorized but in this case does not recognize the identifier of the mobile device . So the payment management server will retrieve an identifier of another device e.g. second device already known to the server as associated with the identified user and connect to that known device. The payment management server will then obtain encrypted PPI from an application on that known device forwarding the encrypted PPI back to the application on the mobile device for subsequent use within application

The means of communication between a user s device e.g. mobile device or second device and a personal storage locker associated with that user are well known in the art and may include but are not limited to a TCP connection a UDP connection email or any other network communication means.

In use a particular personal storage locker can be directly accessed by the device to obtain the encrypted PPI if so enabled by the application . In alternative embodiments the personal storage locker for a particular user can be assigned a device identifier and treated as a known device by the payment management server analogously to the second device of . In either situation the personal storage locker remains persistently available to the mobile device or payment management server which may not be the case if attempting to access encrypted PPI from a different remotely located device e.g. second device .

Referring now to flowcharts of methods and systems for providing a secure single action payment system are provided according to various possible embodiments of the present disclosure. illustrate details of operations performed by a device and server respectively for user and device authentication in connection with a single action payment system while illustrates an example single action payment method used at either a user device or at the server.

A user credentials receipt operation receives user credentials e.g. a user name and password or other identifying information from a user at the mobile device . Every individual using the system as disclosed herein has a unique username password combination within the system which can be stored at one or both devices and the payment management server as discussed in more detail below.

A data forwarding operation sends several pieces of information to the payment management server including the user credentials supplied in the user credentials receipt operation as well as a code identifying the application a code identifying the device and optionally a unique code specific to the device application pair described above. Additional identifying information may be included as well. In certain embodiments the user does not need to know the code for the application for the device or for the device application code. An individual s username need not be the same as is used within each of the programs for purposes other than payments within the context of the present disclosure.

A first time user determination operation occurs at a server and depending on its outcome the mobile device may receive different types of information. If the user credentials identify a first time user an encryption key receipt operation receives an encryption key. A payment information operation prompts the new user to enter that user s preferred PPI e.g. credit card PayPal check or other payment information either by manual entry of information or through automated mechanisms such as optical character recognition of the numbers through use of a camera on the mobile device and encrypts the user s entered PPI with the encryption key received from the payment management server forming encrypted PPI e.g. as illustrated as encrypted PPI in . The payment information operation then stores the encrypted PPI

In one embodiment the user s encrypted PPI is stored in encrypted form on device . In another embodiment the user s PPI could be stored in encrypted form in the storage area for example in a personal storage locker associated with that user. In either embodiment the user s PPI is not persistently stored on payment management server and the encryption key is not persistently stored in the application or the device . In addition the user s PPI is not persistently stored throughout the system in an unencrypted form.

If the user credentials are determined at the payment management server to relate to a preexisting user in a PPI receipt operation that preexisting user receives PPI either from another application on the same device e.g. as illustrated in another device e.g. as illustrated in or from a personal storage locker e.g. as illustrated in . The determination of whether to acquire the PPI from the same device or a different device can be made at the server and the device is notified by the server of the location from which the encrypted PPI can be received. Details regarding this determination are described in further detail in connection with .

In certain embodiments of the present disclosure the PPI receipt module receives the personal payment information in encrypted form thereby requiring that the mobile device be granted access to a decryption key allowing that mobile device to access unencrypted personal payment information. In alternative embodiments the PPI receipt module receives unencrypted PPI and therefore is not required to receive a decryption key to access and use the PPI. In such embodiments the PPI receipt module does not persistently store the PPI in an unencrypted form rather after use in payment as discussed below in connection with the PPI is either encrypted prior to storage or discarded altogether.

Following receipt of the PPI and optionally storage of encrypted information to create encrypted PPI at the mobile device and associated with the particular application operated by a user operational flow within the method terminates at an end operation signifying completed validation and acquisition of payment information such that the mobile device is ready to perform a secured single action payment operation.

A first time user determination operation determines whether the user credentials identify a first time user of the secured payment system of the present disclosure. This can occur for example by comparing the unique user credentials received from the mobile device to a database of user credentials managed at the payment management server . If the user is a first time user an encryption key transmission operation transmits an encryption key to the mobile device and application from which the data was received for encrypting user entered PPI. If the user is not a first time user a known device operation determines whether the device is a known device for example by comparing the unique device code received from the mobile device to a database of codes managed at the payment management server . Optionally the known device operation also compares the device application pair code to other codes to determine whether the device may be known but the application is different from the application known at the payment management server .

If the device is known a PPI reference operation causes the payment management server to send a message to the mobile device to obtain the PPI from another application on the mobile device or from a known pre determined location on the device. The PPI reference operation then optionally also stores a new device application pair code at the payment management server to track that the requesting application and device are now known.

If the device is not known a PPI transfer operation causes the payment management server to manage transfer of PPI from another device e.g. second device of or the user s personal storage locker to the device. Communication between the applications on the different devices e.g. device and respectively can take several forms that are well known in the art. For instance the server can act as a passthrough conduit or it could inform one device about the other and the devices could communicate between themselves. Other methods are possible as well.

In such embodiments in which transfer of PPI is performed the payment management server can locate a known device or personal storage locker associated with the user based on the entered user credentials and can manage transfer of the PPI. Additionally the payment management server can update its records adding the device code and optional device application code thereby indicating that the device and application are now known to the payment management server .

As mentioned above the PPI transfer operation can in certain embodiments transfer encrypted PPI to the device for use within the application . In other embodiments the PPI transfer operation facilitates transfer of unencrypted PPI to the device for use in such embodiments the unencrypted PPI is either encrypted and stored or discarded entirely after use to prevent storage of unencrypted PPI at the device .

An end operation corresponds to completed validation of the user and device at a server such that the server is ready to assist in performing a secured single action payment operation.

In certain embodiments an aggregation operation collects the user s PPI in encrypted form and a decryption key at a common location such that the decryption key can be used to decrypt the encrypted PPI in a decryption operation . In one possible embodiment the aggregation operation causes the decryption key to be transmitted from the server to the device operated by the user and the decryption operation occurs on a device e.g. mobile device . In an alternative embodiment the aggregation operation causes the encrypted PPI to be transmitted from the device to the server and the server performs the decryption operation using a decryption key stored at the server.

It is noted that during the aggregation operation as well as during other messaging transactions occurring in the systems of the present disclosure information is encrypted during transit thereby protecting the PPI and other identifying information. In some embodiments in which encrypted PPI is transmitted between devices the information would be double encrypted since the connection between device and server uses an encrypted channel such as SSL.

In alternative embodiments an operation such as aggregation operation may be unnecessary for example in circumstances where a mobile device is provided with unencrypted PPI from another application or device e.g. the encrypted PPI managed by that other application or device is decrypted separately from the application requesting use of the PPI . In such circumstances the PPI is not stored at the requesting application to ensure that security for the PPI is maintained. If necessary e.g. if the PPI is received from a separate device the PPI is also encrypted during transit using standard secure transmission protocols.

A transmission operation transmits the decrypted PPI from the device at which the decrypted PPI resides e.g. the receiving or decrypting mobile device or the decrypting server to a payment authority e.g. payment authority of via a secure connection for use in payment for an item. Various types of secure connections and payment authorities could be used in the different embodiments of the present disclosure the specifics of this process are well known in the art. The device forwarding the decrypted PPI to the payment authority also discards the particular information not stored at that device. For example if the mobile device performs the decryption operation it will then discard the decrypted PPI and the decryption key after transmitting the decrypted PPI to the payment authority while optionally also retaining the encrypted PPI . In the alternative example where the server performs the decryption operation the server will discard the decrypted PPI and the encrypted PPI but will maintain storage of the decryption key for subsequent uses. Therefore there is no central repository of PPI for one or more users persisted on the server and no device contains both a decryption key and encrypted PPI.

In a payment transaction operation the payment is finalized. This can include for example approval or remittance of payment to a vendor as selected by the user of the device . An end operation corresponds to completed single action payment.

It is noted that for subsequent iterations of method after a device has been authenticated and provided encrypted PPI using the systems and methods of the user need not reenter the PPI onto the device since that information is either retained or returned to the device from another device e.g. device or personal storage locker as managed by the server .

The term computer readable media as used herein may include computer storage media and communication media. As used in this document a computer storage medium is a device or article of manufacture that stores data and or computer executable instructions. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable devices or articles of manufacture implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. By way of example and not limitation computer storage media may include dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM reduced latency DRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM solid state memory read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM optical discs e.g. CD ROMs DVDs etc. magnetic disks e.g. hard disks floppy disks etc. magnetic tapes and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. As used herein the term modulated data signal refers to a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

In the example of the computing device includes a memory a processing system a secondary storage device a network interface card a video interface a display unit an external component interface and a communication medium . The memory includes one or more computer storage media capable of storing data and or instructions. In different embodiments the memory is implemented in different ways. For example the memory can be implemented using various types of computer storage media.

The processing system includes one or more processing units. A processing unit is a physical device or article of manufacture comprising one or more integrated circuits that selectively execute software instructions. In various embodiments the processing system is implemented in various ways. For example the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In another example the processing system can include one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can include an application specific integrated circuit ASIC that provides specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer storage media. The secondary storage device stores data and software instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . In other words the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or software instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device includes various types of computer storage media. For example the secondary storage device can include one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives optical discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer storage media.

The network interface card enables the computing device to send data to and receive data from a communication network. In different embodiments the network interface card is implemented in different ways. For example the network interface card can be implemented as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. WiFi WiMax etc. or another type of network interface.

The video interface enables the computing device to output video information to the display unit . The display unit can be various types of devices for displaying video information such as a cathode ray tube display an LCD display panel a plasma screen display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen or a projector. The video interface can communicate with the display unit in various ways such as via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface or a DisplayPort connector.

The external component interface enables the computing device to communicate with external devices. For example the external component interface can be a USB interface a FireWire interface a serial port interface a parallel port interface a PS 2 interface and or another type of interface that enables the computing device to communicate with external devices. In various embodiments the external component interface enables the computing device to communicate with various external components such as external storage devices input devices speakers modems media player docks other computing devices scanners digital cameras and fingerprint readers.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the secondary storage device the network interface card the video interface and the external component interface . The communications medium can be implemented in various ways. For example the communications medium can include a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of computer executable instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of computer executable instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . Furthermore the memory stores application software . The application software includes computer executable instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide one or more applications. The memory also stores program data . The program data is data used by programs that execute on the computing device .

In various embodiments the computing device can take any of a number of forms. For example the computing device can be a mobile telecommunications device a tablet computing device a netbook or laptop computing device or a desktop or server computing device. Various peripheral equipment or features can be incorporated into the computing device as described above with respect to the external component interface .

Overall a number of advantages of the methods and systems of the present disclosure exist. For example in light of the frequency of security breaches it is advantageous to consumers to avoid having their personal payment numbers permanently stored on a central server since that prevents multiple credit card numbers from being stolen from a single location. Furthermore the system and methods of the present disclosure present even greater hurdles to would be thieves of PPI since not only must the thief gain access to the physical device of the user in order to steal PPI but he must also steal the decryption key in order to make any use of the encrypted PPI.

The various embodiments described above are provided by way of illustration only and should not be construed as limiting. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes that may be made without following the example embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein. For example the operations shown in the figures are merely examples. In various embodiments similar operations can include more or fewer steps than those shown in the figures. Furthermore in other embodiments similar operations can include the steps of the operations shown in the figures in different orders. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

All references cited and or discussed in this specification are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and to the same extent as if each reference was individually incorporated by reference.

