---

title: System and method for adding dynamic information to digitally signed mobile applications
abstract: Described are systems and methods for adding information to a mobile application. A mobile application is downloaded from a server to a mobile device using a web browser. A web browser cookie associated with the mobile application is stored on the mobile device. A request is sent from the mobile application to the server, where the request includes information from the stored web browser cookie. Mobile application data associated with the stored web browser cookie from the server is received by the mobile application in response to the request. The mobile application is then provided with access to the mobile application data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08126963&OS=08126963&RS=08126963
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08126963
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110124
---
This application is a continuation application of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 165 396 filed on Jun. 30 2008 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This present disclosure relates to mobile computing and more particularly to adding information to digitally signed mobile applications.

Digital signatures are commonly used in connection with software applications to verify the origin of the application as well as to ensure that the application s integrity has not been comprised since the digital signature was applied. Normally digital signatures provide two algorithms a private key for signing the application known only by the signing entity and a public key available to other entities from the signing entity or a certificate issuing authority for verifying the signature. Digital signatures can be used to create a public key infrastructure PKI scheme in which an entity s public key can identify that entity s digital identity. By verifying the entity s public key with the issuer of the digital identity e.g. the certificate authority a level of trust can be established between the signing entity and any third parties. Digital signatures can also be used to verify the integrity of the application. After applying a digital signature to the application any subsequent changes to the application will invalidate the digital signature. Thus when changes are made to the application after it has been signed the integrity of the application may be considered compromised and in most cases cannot be trusted.

Some mobile devices run on operating systems and mobile platforms that require applications to be associated with a valid digital signature in order to allow the application to execute. In other instances mobile devices attempting to run unsigned applications may prompt a user for approval prior to allowing the application access to certain device resources e.g. the device s network connection memory etc. . Thus any updates or changes to a mobile application after it has been digitally signed will prevent the mobile device from executing the application. While some mobile application platforms may allow for applications to be re signed the time and expense associated with re signing makes such solutions impractical in most cases.

In recent years mobile devices have evolved from simple cell phones and two way pagers into high powered mobile computing devices. As mobile device capabilities have increased so have the number of developers and publishers providing mobile applications for those mobile devices. Similar to their other software mobile applications may be frequently updated with new information intended to keep the applications current such as new versions of the mobile applications as well as other information generated after the application has been downloaded or installed on a mobile device. However some mobile devices require mobile applications to have valid digital signatures before allowing the applications to run. In those instances updates or modifications to a mobile application may invalidate the application s digital signature and prevent execution. Systems and methods can be implemented to add data and information to digitally signed mobile applications without invalidating the digital signatures.

In one general aspect a mobile application is downloaded from a server to a mobile device using a web browser. A web browser cookie associated with the mobile application is stored on the mobile device. A request is sent from the mobile application to the server where the request includes information from the stored web browser cookie. Mobile application data associated with the stored web browser cookie from the server is received by the mobile application in response to the request. The mobile application is then provided with access to the mobile application data.

The details of one or more embodiments of the present disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features of the present disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The present disclosure provides systems and techniques for adding dynamic data and other information to digitally signed mobile applications on a mobile device. As used herein dynamic data dynamic information dynamic application data additional application data and other similar terms are intended to represent data or information associated with a mobile application that has changed or has been added generated customized or otherwise altered after the mobile application has been digitally signed. is a schematic diagram of a system for implementing the techniques in a mobile device server environment. The system allows mobile devices to download digitally signed mobile applications and then without invalidating the mobile application s digital signature add dynamic information and data for use with the application . By doing so signed mobile applications can be updated in an efficient and cost effective manner while retaining the advantages provided by a valid digital signature. Further for mobile platforms and operating systems that require a valid digital signature for each application before it can be executed e.g. Windows Mobile Symbian etc. the present system allows mobile application publishers and distributors to update mobile applications without requiring each application to be re signed and or re downloaded. Still further the present system allows downloaded mobile application to be associated with dynamic data generated in response to a mobile device downloading the signed application . For instance information identifying a specific marketing initiative or advertising method leading a user of the mobile device to download a particular mobile application can be captured and used to quantify the effectiveness of particular initiatives and methods.

In the system includes a mobile device e.g. a cell phone capable of navigating to one or more networks such as the Internet. The system also includes a web server storing one or more web pages with associated content e.g. text images video etc. . Some of the web pages may include links or other interactive elements that allow the mobile device to download a mobile application . In the illustrated example mobile applications are provided by one or more mobile application publishers and stored on the web server . In some instances the web server may be a server controlled and or maintained by a particular mobile application publisher for among other things distributing copies of the mobile application . In other instances the web server may be controlled by a third party authorized to distribute mobile applications on behalf of one or more application publishers .

As shown by arrow the mobile application publisher provides one or more digitally signed mobile applications to the web server for distribution. The mobile applications may be digitally signed by the publisher e.g. using a product such as Mobile2Market from Microsoft or by a third party entity authorized to sign the application on the publisher s behalf such as VeriSign . The digital signature associated with the mobile application can be used by mobile devices to confirm that the application originated from the mobile application publisher identified in the digital signature and to verify that the application has not be altered or corrupted since it was signed. In other words the digital signature can provide the mobile device and the mobile device s platform and or operating system with the requisite level of trust in the mobile application needed to permit its execution.

The signed mobile applications can be made accessible to mobile devices through one or more web pages . As shown by arrow the mobile device can send a request e.g. using a link on a particular web page requesting the download of a mobile application via the mobile device s web browser . In response the web server can send a copy of the requested mobile application to the mobile device as shown by arrow . In addition to the copy of the signed application the web server s response can include a cookie uniquely identifying the mobile device . Information linked to the cookie at the web server may be related to the mobile application being downloaded. The web server can use the cookie during later interactions with the mobile device to identify the device the mobile web browser and or the downloaded mobile application as well as any settings or additional information associated with the mobile device .

In some instances each cookie may be associated with additional application data stored at the web server . The set of additional data for the mobile applications can store data and information generally associated with particular versions of the mobile application e.g. updates to the applications as well as dynamic data or other information related to specific copies of the application downloaded by one or more mobile devices . In some instances an update may be included in the dynamic data related to a specific copy of the application . In other instances the set of additional data may include a combination of both general and specific data. The set of additional data generally comprises data or information not included in or with the mobile application at the time the application was digitally signed. Thus if the additional data was added to or used to modify the application by changing or amending the application s code or structure the digital signature for the application would be invalidated resulting in some mobile devices i.e. those requiring valid digital signatures being unable to execute the mobile application . In other instances an invalid signature may require the mobile device to prompt a user each time the application is run for approval before allowing the mobile application access to device specific resources. For instance if a mobile application is not associated with a valid signature the mobile device may require the user to verify that the mobile application is authorized to access the device s memory network connection or other components needed or requested by the application at runtime. In those instances the prompt may be generated once per execution or during each attempt to access a device component.

As shown by arrow the mobile application publisher can provide the web server with updates and additional data associated with the mobile applications . The set of additional data may at least in part also contain dynamic information generated by the web server based on one or more factors including among others the actions of the mobile device and its web browser prior to and at the time of requesting the download information identifying a user associated with the mobile device or information on a copy of the mobile application downloaded by the device . For example the mobile application may be available from more than one web page . If the mobile device requests a copy of the application through a first web page the web server may dynamically generate a set of data identifying the first web page as the location from which the application was requested and or downloaded. Similarly when the application is downloaded from a second web page the server can generate a set of data identifying the second web page as the location from which the application was requested and or downloaded.

For example the mobile device using the mobile web browser can navigate to a first web page including one or more advertisements. One of the advertisements may be for the mobile application and may include a hyperlink to one of the web pages stored on the web server . By activating or clicking on the hyperlink the mobile web browser can be directed to a second web page where the mobile application can be downloaded. In some instances one or more of the web pages at server may be landing pages associated with one or more advertisements displayed on web pages internal to and external from the web server . Those landing pages may provide the mobile web browser with the ability to download the application . In this instance the set of additional data generated by the web server can define information related to the advertisement and or the landing page through which the mobile device initiated downloading the application . For example the uniform resource locators URLs associated with the link between the advertisement and the landing page can include a parameter describing how the mobile device arrived at the particular web page . In other words the parameter can describe a distribution channel through which the mobile device via its web browser downloaded the mobile application . The distribution channel parameter can be retrieved from the URL associated with the download request where that parameter is then used by the web server to define a cookie associated with the mobile device . If the cookie has not been created the web server can create and populate the cookie with the parameter information. Information associated with the cookie can be stored at the server and the associated cookie can be sent to the mobile device via the web browser when the copy of the mobile application is downloaded. Cookies received from the web server can be stored in a cookie store at the mobile device .

Once the installed and its digital signature verified the downloaded application can be executed. As shown by arrow the downloaded application can send an HTTP request to the web server or another server in the same domain . In some instances the downloaded mobile application may be designed such that during its first execution or during each execution an HTTP request is sent to the web server or domain from which the application was downloaded either to check for updates or other dynamic information or as part of its normal operations. The request can include the cookie previously set by the web server for the particular domain. The downloaded application and the web browser can share the cookies of the cookie store on the mobile device . In one example for a mobile device running the Windows Mobile operating system a client application programming interface API is provided for accessing and setting cookies in a shared cookie store.

When the HTTP request is received the web server retrieves the cookie and accesses its set of additional data to retrieve information associated with the cookie. Once the information is retrieved and the HTTP request is processed the web server sends a response to the downloaded mobile application as shown by arrow . The response can include both a communication responsive to the HTTP request and any information associated with the cookie. The mobile device via the mobile application receives the response and stores the additional information in its additional data store . From then on the mobile application can access the additional data store during its execution to retrieve execute apply and or process the additional information as appropriate.

The web server may include a processor a memory and an interface . In general the web server may be an electronic computer device operable to receive transmit process store or manage data associated with the system . The web server of system may be implemented using computers other than servers as well as a server pool. Further the server may be adapted or operable to execute any operating system including Linux UNIX Windows Mac OS X or any other suitable operating system.

The memory associated with the web server may include any memory or database module and may take the form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component. For example memory may store classes applications backup data business objects jobs parameters cookies variables algorithms instructions rules or references thereto.

Illustrated memory includes a cookie identifier and store one or more mobile applications and a set of additional mobile application data . Although illustrated within memory some or all of the items may be located outside the memory and or server in some implementations e.g. in multiple different memories or multiple different servers . Each mobile application can be any application program module process or other software that can execute change delete generate or otherwise manage information on and for a mobile device. Each mobile application may be written or described in any appropriate computer programming language including but not limited to C C and Java among others such that the application can run on one or more mobile computing platforms or operating systems including but not limited to MICROSOFT WINDOWS MOBILE JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME MICROSOFT .NET Compact SYMBIAN OS or another appropriate platform or operating system. Further although described as a mobile application the application may also comprise software capable of use on non mobile devices including laptops desktops workstations servers or any other appropriate type of computing device. One or more of the mobile applications can comprise a digitally signed mobile application that allows third parties including the mobile device to identify the application s origin and verify that the application has not been modified since the digital signature was applied. In general the mobile applications illustrated within the web server are stored for distribution to one or more mobile devices communicably coupled to the server .

The set of additional mobile application data represents data associated with one or more of the mobile applications but which has been received or generated after the associated mobile application has been digitally signed. For example the set of additional mobile application data may include an update to a particular application or information generated in response to or during the download of a particular copy of the application . Because certain mobile devices require mobile applications to have a valid digital signature in order to execute the mobile applications cannot be modified once they have been signed. In other instances an invalid digital signature may require tedious or time consuming manual approval of various actions to be performed by the mobile application such as accessing the device s memory or using information or functionality associated with other components. Thus any update or dynamic application data may be associated with the mobile application on the mobile device rather than by modifying the mobile application itself.

When the mobile application is requested or downloaded the web server can set and or create one or more cookies associated with the requesting mobile device . The cookies can be sent to the mobile device with the copy of the mobile application . Information related to the cookies such as information identifying the mobile device or the device s user or information associated with the particular copy of the application downloaded by a plurality of mobile devices is stored in the cookie identifier and store of the web server . In one implementation the cookie identifier and store may comprise a database storing information relating to each of the cookies generated by the web server and provided to the plurality of mobile devices . In some instances the mobile web browser as opposed to the web server can create the cookie based on information received from the web server . In those instances information received from the web server in response to the download request may be used by the web browser via JavaScript or another appropriate method to generate the appropriate cookie associated with the web server and the mobile device .

After the mobile applications are digitally signed the publishers of the applications and other authorized third parties may provide updates or other application related information to the web server that are stored with the set of additional application data . If updates or other dynamic data has been provided for a particular version of the downloaded mobile application requests to the web server from mobile devices which have downloaded a copy of that application can indicate to the web server that the stored update and or dynamic information associated with the application should be provided to the mobile device . Thus when the mobile device visits the web server generally by sending an HTTP request from the browser or the downloaded application the web server can receive the previously defined cookies. The web server can then search the cookie identifier and store for information linked to or associated with the received cookies. The web server can identify the received cookie as associated with the mobile device and the downloaded mobile application and determine whether an update or other information associated with the mobile application is available. If the cookie identifier and store indicates that an update or additional information is available the web server can retrieve the relevant data from the set of additional application data and send it to the mobile device .

The web server also includes the processor . The processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the web server and may be implemented as for example a central processing unit CPU a blade an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a field programmable gate array FPGA among others. Although illustrated as a single processor multiple processors may be used in some implementations. In processor executes the operations necessary to receive and process requests from mobile devices access data within the memory send information and data to the mobile devices and perform the other operations associated with the web server . The processor may also perform the operations necessary to provide one or more web pages not illustrated providing access to or downloads of one or more stored applications .

The web server also includes interface for communicating with other computer systems and mobile devices over network . Generally interface comprises logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination operable to communicate with the network . More specifically interface may comprise software supporting one or more communication protocols such that the network or hardware is operable to communicate physical signals.

The network facilitates wireless or wireline communication between the web server and any other local or remote computer including one or more mobile devices in the system . Indeed while illustrated as a single network network may be a discontinuous network so long as at least a portion of the network may facilitate communications between senders and recipients. An example wireless link may be provided via 802.11a b g 802.20 WiMax or other types of wireless links. The network can encompass any internal or external network networks sub network or combination thereof operable to facilitate communications between various computing components inside and outside the illustrated system . The network may communicate for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and other suitable information between network addresses. The network may include one or more local area networks LANs radio access networks RANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs all or a portion of the Internet one or more wireless phone networks and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations.

The mobile device may be any mobile computer device operable to connect or communicate with web server and or the network using a wireless or wireline connection. In particular the mobile device may be embodied as a cell phone personal digital assistant PDA smart phone wireless messaging device or other suitable type of mobile computing device. described below illustrate and describe a particular implementation of a mobile device associated with system . There may be any number of mobile devices associated with system at any point in time. At a high level each mobile device can include a processor a GUI one or more mobile applications a mobile web browser an HTTP stack a memory and an interface . In general the mobile device comprises an electronic computer device operable to receive transmit process and or store any appropriate data associated with the one or more mobile applications and the mobile web browser . In one example the mobile device may be a cell phone that includes an input device such as a keypad touch screen mouse trackball or other device that can accept information and an output device that conveys information associated with the operation of the mobile device including digital data visual information or the GUI . Both the input device and the output device may include fixed or removable storage media such as a magnetic computer disk CD ROM or other suitable media to both receive input from and provide output to users of the mobile device through the display namely the GUI .

The interface of the mobile device may be similar to the interface of web server in that it may comprise logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with the network . More specifically interface may comprise software supporting one or more communication protocols such that the network or hardware is operable to communicate physical signals to and from the mobile device .

Similarly the memory of the mobile device may include any memory or database module and may take the form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component. For example memory may store mobile applications backup data parameters cookies variables algorithms instructions rules or references thereto. As illustrated the memory can include a cookie store and a set of additional application data .

The GUI is a graphical user interface operable to allow the user of the mobile device to interface with at least a portion of the system for any suitable purpose including to allow a user of the mobile device to interact with the mobile application and the mobile web browser . The term graphical user interface or GUI may be used in the singular or in the plural to describe one or more graphical user interfaces and each of the displays of a particular graphical user interface. Therefore the GUI can be any graphical user interface such as a generic web browser touch screen or command line interface CLI that processes information in the system and efficiently presents the results to a user. Generally the GUI provides the mobile device with an efficient and user friendly presentation of data provided by or communicated within the system . In particular the GUI may provide users of the mobile application with access to data stored within the memory . The GUI may include a plurality of user interface UI elements such as interactive fields pull down lists and buttons operable at the mobile device . These UI elements may be related to the functions of the mobile application or the mobile web browser . In particular the GUI may be used in connection with the mobile web browser to view and navigate to various web pages some of which may be associated with the web server as illustrated in . Using the web browser the user of the mobile device can request a download of one or more mobile applications from the web server .

The mobile application stored at the web server can be downloaded via network and stored at the mobile device shown as mobile application . Further the mobile application may be a digitally signed copy of a particular mobile application stored at web server . Although illustrated external to memory the mobile application may also be stored within memory and accessed and executed accordingly. The mobile application can be any software application that provides additional functionality to the mobile device such as a web browser word processor mapping application or any other appropriate application. When executed the mobile application may be able to communicate via the network with other computers servers and systems such as the web server .

The mobile application may be executed by the processor . In some instances processor may be similar to processor of the web server . In other instances the processor may be a processor designed specifically for use in mobile devices such as cell phones or PDAs. Further although illustrated as a single processor the processor may be implemented as multiple processors in the mobile device . Regardless of the type and number the processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the mobile device including operations necessary to receive and process information from the web server access data within memory execute the mobile application and mobile web browser as well as perform other operations associated with the mobile device .

The mobile web browser is a software application which enables a user to display and interact with text images videos music and other information typically located on web pages associated with one or more web servers i.e. web server or other computers accessible via the network . Text and images on various web pages can contain hyperlinks to other web pages with some of those web pages associated with different web servers and domains. Users of the mobile device can quickly and easily access information provided on various web pages by navigating those links using the mobile web browser . In general web browsers format hypertext markup language HTML information for display so the appearance of a web page may differ between browsers based on the particular browser used and the particular settings defined by or for the user. In the web browser can connect to the web server via the network . The mobile web browser may be a web browser designed for use with mobile devices and specifically with mobile operating systems such as Windows Mobile or Symbian OS. Further the mobile web browser may provide different or alternative functionality as compared to web browsers used in standard or non mobile operating systems. Examples of acceptable mobile web browsers include Internet Explorer Mobile by Microsoft Blackberry Browser by Research in Motion Opera Mobile by Opera Software ASA or Safari by Apple Inc. Other appropriate mobile browsers may also be used.

Within the mobile device the mobile web browser interfaces with an HTTP stack . The HTTP stack is a software component of the mobile device which provides for sending requests to and receiving responses from one or more locations associated with network . For instance the HTTP stack can be used to establish a connection with the web server and to transmit HTML and other data to and from the mobile web browser . To do so the HTTP stack can use the interface of the mobile device to communicate with the web server . Upon receiving an HTTP request from the mobile web browser or the mobile application to a particular domain the HTTP stack can retrieve one or more cookies associated with the domain from a cookie store including those cookies previously received from the web server . The HTTP stack may be shared by the mobile application allowing the application to access the HTTP stack s functionality when communicating with the web server or any other server or computer via the network . Thus the HTTP stack can be used by both the mobile application and the mobile web browser allowing the application and browser to have shared access to the cookie store . In other implementations the mobile application and the web browser can access retrieve and use cookies from the cookie store without using the HTTP stack .

The cookies of the cookie store may be received during the mobile web browser s interactions with other systems e.g. the web server . For instance when the mobile web browser is used to request the download of the mobile application mobile application when stored at the web server the web server may send one or more cookies along with the application . Those cookies may then be stored in the cookie store by the HTTP stack or the mobile web browser . In future requests to the web server sent by either the mobile application or the mobile web browser the HTTP stack can retrieve and include the stored cookies in the requests. By doing so the web server can authenticate track or maintain specific information about the mobile device the mobile application and or the mobile web browser . The system may include a plurality of web servers and computers associated with network and accessible by the web browser and the mobile application . Cookies received from the other servers and computers can also be stored within the cookie store . Future requests to those servers and computers will include the appropriate cookies as retrieved by the HTTP stack .

In the present implementation when a cookie is sent to the web server with a request from the mobile application the mobile device may receive in addition to a normal response a set of additional information associated with the cookie and the downloaded application . That information may include any data from the web server s set of additional application data associated with the cookie sent by the mobile application . Once received at the mobile device the HTTP stack the mobile application and or the mobile web browser can store the received information as or with the mobile device s set of additional application data . In some instances the additional application data can be stored such that when the mobile application is executed the application can access the memory to retrieve and integrate the additional data at runtime. Because particular implementations require each application to have a valid digital signature e.g. to allow any execution of the mobile application to avoid user prompts requesting manual approval for the application s actions etc. the applications cannot or should not be updated or modified by changing the code of the software. Instead during execution the application may access the additional application data and use the relevant updates or dynamic data to perform new or updated processes or to process the new information during the application s normal activities. In some instances the mobile application may be designed to search for the additional dynamic information at a particular location in the mobile device s memory e.g. the set of additional application data each during execution. In other instances the additional application data may not be actively used by the mobile application in its normal execution. Instead the additional application data may be associated with later requests from one or more external systems or applications. For instance the additional application data associated with a particular mobile application may be related to a particular distribution channel used by the mobile device via the mobile web browser to identify locate and download the application . The external system requesting the information may be a tracking or marketing application attempting to determine the effectiveness of marketing initiatives and web based advertising for the particular application by analyzing the application s distribution channels. Those external systems may request from a plurality of mobile devices information defining the particular distribution channels associated with the downloaded applications . In those instances either the mobile web browser or the mobile application may access the set of additional application data retrieve the relevant stored information and respond to the external system s request with the information defining the distribution channel used. The aggregated set of data retrieved from the plurality of mobile devices can be used to calculate various metrics and study the effectiveness of marketing and advertising strategies used to distribute different applications. For instance the aggregated set of data can provide information defining one or more of the following the number of distinct users accessing a distribution channel the number of distinct users downloading a particular application the number of distinct users successfully installing the download application the number of distinct users running the downloaded application a first time and the number of distinct users running the product multiple times.

At a mobile device sends a request to download a mobile application from a particular domain hereinafter domain X . In some implementations the mobile device may send the request using a mobile web browser. The mobile device may have navigated through a series of web pages via one or more hyperlinks to arrive at a particular web page where the download request can be made or where the download occurs. For example the mobile web browser may navigate to a website associated with the mobile application s publisher. By following a link on the homepage of the publisher the web browser may navigate to a page listing one or more applications available to download. The mobile web browser can activate a hyperlink associated with a particular listing for a desired application which navigates the browser to the download page of the selected application. Alternatively a first web page may include an advertisement for a particular application. A hyperlink associated with the advertisement can be activated such that the mobile web browser is taken to a second web page in domain X associated with the advertisement where the application can be downloaded. Domain X may be associated with a single web server storing a copy of the requested mobile application or it may be associated with a plurality of web servers hosting a set of related web pages where one or more of the web servers store copies of mobile applications available for downloading. In some instances a first web server can store and provide the web pages for the domain while a second web server can store and provide copies of the mobile applications. In those instances a download request made through a web page associated with a first web server can cause the mobile application to be downloaded from web page associated with a second web server. In some implementations the HTTP request sent from one web page to another may include a uniform resource locator URL associated with the download request. The download request can include a parameter defining how the mobile web browser arrived at the download request page such as by defining the previous page or pages visited by the web browser. In other words the parameter can define a particular distribution channel used by the mobile web browser prior to requesting the download. In some instances the distribution channel parameter can be appended to the HTTP request and used to identify the download request URL.

At the mobile device receives a copy of the mobile application along with a web browser cookie from domain X. The copy of the mobile application can be a digitally signed where the digital signature can be used to identify the origin of the application and verify that the application s code has not been modified since signing. The web browser cookie can be a cookie generated by a web server in domain X communicating with the mobile web browser wherein the cookie is to be used to authenticate the mobile device to track the mobile device s interactions with domain X e.g. for state maintenance session tracking etc. or to maintain information about the mobile device and or the particular downloaded copy of the mobile application.

At the mobile device stores the downloaded mobile application and the web browser cookie. In some implementations the mobile application may be installed automatically once the mobile device receives the software while in others the application may not be installed until prompted by a user or the device s operating system. Additionally the web browser cookie may be stored by the mobile web browser in a central location e.g. the cookie store in to allow for easy retrieval and access to the cookie by the mobile web browser and the mobile application.

At the mobile application is executed. When executed the mobile application can make an HTTP request to a web server at domain X. The HTTP request can be any request by the mobile application to a web server at domain X. For instance the HTTP request may be associated with the general purpose of the mobile application. In one example the mobile application may be a news aggregator designed to retrieve information from the Internet and specifically from a web page in domain X. Thus when the application is executed an HTTP request is automatically sent to domain X. In other instances the HTTP request may be specifically made to check for updates or additional information associated with the mobile application. In those instances when executed the mobile application sends an HTTP request to the particular domain from which it was downloaded. In either instance the HTTP request sent by the mobile application can include one or more cookies received during previous interactions with the web server s of domain X. The cookies may be those previously stored by the web browser at . In some implementations the cookies stored by the web browser are also accessible for use by the mobile application. The web server the mobile application sends the HTTP request to can be the same web server from which the mobile application was downloaded or in other instances may be different from the web server the application was downloaded from but still in the same domain.

At the mobile device receives a response to the mobile application s HTTP request. The response can contain HTML data or other information relevant to the request. In some instances the response can include data and information associated with or provided in response to the cookies included in the request. The data and information can include dynamic information associated with the mobile application such as an update. In other instances the information received may include data defining a particular distribution channel used by the mobile web browser to download the mobile application. In some instances no additional information other than that responsive to the HTTP request may be included in the response.

At the mobile device determines whether in fact any dynamic mobile application data was included with the response If it is determined that no dynamic mobile application data is received method can skip to where the response is processed by the mobile application. However if the mobile device determines that some dynamic mobile application data is received with the response to the request method can continue at .

At the mobile device stores the received dynamic mobile application data. The mobile device can receive the combined response to the mobile application s HTTP request at and parse the response into the response to the HTTP request and the set of dynamic mobile application data associated with the one or more cookies sent with the HTTP request. The dynamic mobile application data can be stored for instance with the set of additional application data illustrated in . Because the mobile application is digitally signed and because the operating system and or platform of the mobile device may require that applications have a valid digital signature to execute the dynamic mobile application data is not used to directly modify the code of the mobile application. Instead the dynamic mobile application data is stored locally on the mobile device where the mobile application can quickly and efficiently access to the data for further use. In some instances the mobile application may be designed such that during each execution the application searches a particular location within the mobile device for any dynamic data or updates. If data is located the application can integrate the data at runtime.

At the mobile application processes the response to the HTTP request. For example where the mobile application is a news aggregator the mobile application can interpret the information e.g. stories and articles received at and organize that information for presentation to the user. After the method can end.

In some implementations once the dynamic mobile application data is received and stored locally on the mobile device the mobile application may send an acknowledgment receipt to domain X. The acknowledgement receipt can be used to indicate that the mobile device has received the dynamic mobile application data and stored or persisted it locally in the set of additional application data . In response to the acknowledgement receipt the web server may send an updated cookie to the mobile device . For instance if no additional dynamic mobile application data is available from the web server the web server may update the cookie by adding an expired expiration date to the cookie s parameters such that the cookie expires or is removed from the mobile device. In other instances the web server may include a timestamp with each newly created or generated cookie wherein cookies with more recent timestamps are used instead of cookies with older timestamps. In other instances the web server may send a request to the mobile device to delete or remove the cookie. In still other instances the updated cookie may remove only the information from the cookie associated with the downloaded mobile application so that future interaction with the web server does not involve duplicative exchanges of identical dynamic mobile application data. In some instances the updated cookie may include or reference information identifying the latest data received by the mobile device so that future updates and or previously unavailable or unsent dynamic data will still be provided to the mobile device . In other instances the cookie may remain unchanged on the mobile device with the web server locally updating any relevant information associated with the cookie.

At a web server receives a request to download a mobile application. In some implementations the request is an HTTP request received from a mobile web browser associated with the mobile device via a web page associated with the web server where the HTTP request includes or represents a request to download a mobile application . In some implementations the HTTP request may include information identifying the requesting mobile device such as an IP address a download request URL from where the mobile web browser requested the mobile application or other appropriate information. For instance the download request URL may include a parameter defining the distribution channel used by the mobile web browser to arrive at the download request page. The distribution channel parameter may be appended to the download request URL sent to the web server .

At the web server can set or create a cookie associated with the received request. In some instances the cookie can be used to identify the mobile device requesting the application. In other instances the cookie can be used to identify the version of the mobile application requested by the mobile device . In still other instances the cookie can be used to identify the distribution channel the mobile web browser used to download the mobile application . The distribution channel may define the URL from which the request was sent information describing a particular marketing initiative followed by the browser to request the download or a series of navigations the mobile web browser followed prior to requesting the application .

The web server can store the information identifying and related to the cookie in a cookie identifier and store . When a cookie is later received in a request to the web server any information or data associated with the cookie can be located by referencing the information stored in the cookie identifier and store . The cookie identifier and store s information can be used to direct the web server to relevant updates or dynamic mobile application data stored in the set of additional application data .

At the web server responds to the download request by sending a copy of the mobile application and the cookie to the requester. The cookie can be included in an HTTP response allowing it to be set on the mobile device . In some instances more than one cookie can be included in the HTTP response. In one instance an HTTP response is sent from the web server to the requesting mobile web browser indicating that the appropriate cookies should be set with a particular set of values to uniquely identifying the mobile web browser the mobile application and or the mobile device . Thus any later HTTP requests including those cookies can allow the web server to identify the mobile device as the source of the request.

At the web server or a second web server internal or external to the same domain receives a new HTTP request. In some instances the request is sent by the downloaded mobile application stored on the mobile device . The HTTP request can include any cookies previously set by the web server or any server in the same domain . The cookies received in the HTTP request can be used to identify the mobile device as the source of the HTTP request the copy of the mobile application previously downloaded by the device or to provide any other relevant information associated with the cookie.

At the web server determines whether any dynamic mobile application data associated with the received cookie is available. In some instances the determination is performed by comparing the received cookie with information stored in the cookie identifier and store . The cookie identifier and store defines the set cookies and may indicate whether any associated dynamic data is available for the mobile application in the set of additional application data . Determining whether data is available for the mobile application may entail determining whether the version of the mobile application associated with the cookie is associated with an update or any new dynamic information. In some instances the application s publisher may have distributed an update to the application with a copy of the update stored with the set of additional application data at the web server . In other instances dynamic information associated with the cookie including for example the distribution channel for the particular copy of the mobile application can also be stored with the set of additional application data . Each cookie entry in the cookie identifier and store may include information or a link directing the web server to the relevant data or information in the set of application data .

If the web server determines that no dynamic mobile application data is associated with the received cookie then method moves to where the HTTP request is processed and an appropriate response is sent to the requester. However if the web server determines that some dynamic mobile application data is associated with the cookie then method continues at .

At the web server retrieves any all or a portion of the dynamic mobile application data associated with the cookie. In one implementation the web server can use information in the cookie identifier and store to determine where the appropriate data is located. For instance if the information associated with the cookie indicates that an update to the downloaded mobile application is available then the appropriate update can be retrieved from the set of additional application data . In other instances the set of additional application data or the information in the cookie identifier and store may identify location external to the web server where the relevant update or information is located. In those instances the web server can retrieve the update from the external location via the network . In other implementations the dynamic mobile application data associated with the cookie and stored in the set of additional application data may represent information generated by the web server in response to the download request from the mobile application at .

Once the dynamic mobile application data has been retrieved at the web server sends a response to the HTTP request. The response can include information relevant and responsive to the received HTTP request along with the retrieved dynamic mobile application data associated with the one or more cookies received with the HTTP request. After and method ends.

In some implementations the web server may receive a receipt acknowledgement indicating that the recipient received and stored the dynamic mobile application data sent at . In response the web server may remove references to the provided dynamic mobile application data within the cookie identifier and store for the cookie s associated with the mobile device . Thus if another HTTP request is received from the mobile device with device specific cookies the web server will not re transmit the previously provided dynamic mobile application data. Further if the cookie associated with the mobile device is blank or empty the web server may expire or otherwise remove the cookie. The cookie may be expired by sending an updated cookie with a expiration date that has passed to the mobile device or by otherwise indicating that the cookie should be removed or deleted. If however the cookie retains some relevant information only the portions related to the provided dynamic mobile application data may be removed. In those instances the web server can respond to the mobile device with an updated cookie to overwrite or replace the previous cookie. In some instances the cookie stored at the mobile device can remain unchanged while only the cookie related information stored at the web server e.g. the information in the cookie identifier and store is updated. Further interaction with the mobile device will then not result in the same dynamic data and updates being sent in future exchanges. Instead only new updates and unsent dynamic data associated with the mobile application will be provided.

At box a mobile web browser in use on the mobile device is navigated to a domain associated with the web server. In some implementations the mobile web browser can be directed to a particular domain through an advertisement for a particular mobile application. For instance the mobile web browser may be viewing a first web page that includes an advertisement for a mobile application. By activating a hyperlink associated with the advertisement the mobile web browser can be directed to a second web page where the mobile application can be downloaded.

At box the mobile web browser of the mobile device can send a request to download the mobile application from the web server. In some instances the request can be initiated by activating a UI element e.g. a button a drop down box a hyperlink etc. included within a particular web page. In other instances the download may be requested automatically upon navigating to or arriving at the web page. The request may be transmitted to the web server as an HTTP request.

The web server receives the request to download the mobile application and sets and or creates a cookie associated with the request at box . The cookie can be used to identify the mobile device during future interactions between the device and the web server or another web server within the same domain . In some implementations the cookie may specify a distribution channel by which the mobile web browser navigated to request the download. The distribution channel can be determined by parsing information included in the request sent by the mobile device. For instance the download request web page URL may include a distribution channel parameter identifying the previous web page or series of web pages visited by the browser prior to reaching the download request URL. The distribution channel parameter can be taken from the URL and included in the new cookie. The cookie can also identify the particular version of the mobile application requested by the mobile device. If a later received cookie is associated with a version of the mobile application for which an update is available the web server can send the appropriate updates to the mobile device. In still other instances the cookie can include information uniquely or specifically identifying a particular mobile device. In particular instances some but not all mobile devices may be identified by similar information e.g. a model number a service provider etc. . The cookie may include some information shared by cookies associated with other mobile devices. Additionally the cookie may include some information shared by other devices as well as some information or a particular combination of shared information that uniquely or specifically identifies the mobile device the mobile application the mobile web browser or a user thereof.

At box the web server sends the requested mobile application and the cookie set at to the mobile device. The cookie can be sent via an HTTP response directed to the mobile web browser associated with the mobile device. The mobile application can be downloaded using the functionality of the mobile web browser.

At box the mobile device upon receiving the web server s response can store the cookie in the appropriate location and if the mobile application s digital signature is verified install the mobile application on the mobile device. In some implementations the cookie can be stored on the mobile device in a cookie store shared by the mobile web browser and the downloaded mobile application . In one implementation the mobile application s digital signature can be generated with a public and private key pair. A mobile application publisher or another entity used to sign the application can be associated with a public and private key pair. Using an agreed upon or publicly known cryptographic digest or hash function the contents or code of the application can be processed by the publisher or signing entity using the hash function to generate a first hash value. That value can then be encrypted with the publisher s or signing entity s private key and the encrypted first hash value can be included with or embedded in the mobile application. The mobile device upon receiving the signed mobile application can use the same hash function as the publisher or signing entity to generate a second hash value for the mobile application. The public key associated with the publisher or signing entity can then be used by the mobile device to decrypt the first hash value included with the mobile application. If the decrypted first hash value and the generated second hash value are identical the digital signature is considered valid and the mobile application is deemed verified. In alternative implementations any appropriate digital signature technique can be used. In some instances the mobile application may be installed on the mobile device before its digital signature is validated. In those instances the digital signature may be verified prior to the application s first execution.

At box the digitally signed and verified mobile application is executed. During execution the mobile application sends an HTTP request to the web server that includes the previously set cookie s stored at the mobile device. The HTTP request can be a part of the mobile application s normal operations or the request can be sent specifically to check for updates or dynamic data.

At box the web server receives the HTTP request from the mobile application along with one or more cookies. Using the cookies the web server can identify the mobile device as well as the particular mobile application downloaded at box . To do so the web server can compare the received cookie with a list of previously generated cookies associated with the domain of the web server as stored in the cookie identifier and store . After locating the cookie the web server can retrieve detailed information identifying the mobile device the mobile application including the particular version of the mobile application downloaded by the mobile device the distribution channel used by the mobile web browser that led to the download of the mobile application and any other status and state information associated with previous interactions between the web server and the mobile device.

At box the web server retrieves any dynamic data associated with the cookie. For example retrieving the dynamic data may include retrieving a software update or other dynamic information i.e. the distribution channel associated with the application s download stored at the web server i.e. from the set of additional application data that is associated with the particular version of the downloaded mobile application. In another example the software update or dynamic information may be retrieved from a location remote from the web server identified by the cookie identifier and store or by the set of additional application data e.g. an update server controlled by the publisher of the mobile application .

At box the web server transmits a response to the mobile application s HTTP request. The response includes any dynamic application data identified and retrieved at box . In some instances dynamic application data may be sent in a separate communication from the response to the mobile application s HTTP request. In other instances the dynamic application data may be embedded within or included with the response.

At box the mobile application receives and processes the response from the web server. In some instances the response to the HTTP request may be processed separately from any received dynamic mobile application data. The response to the HTTP request can be processed normally by the mobile application or the mobile device. The dynamic application data received at is stored or persisted at the mobile device for future use and or integration with the mobile application. In some instances the dynamic application data can be stored in a predefined location such as a particular folder or other location within the mobile device e.g. the set of additional application data .

Finally at box the mobile application can be provided access to the dynamic application data. In some implementations the mobile application can be designed such that when executed the application can search a predefined location within the mobile device for its associated stored updates and other dynamic information. In other implementations the storage location for the dynamic application data can be provided to the mobile application using one or more runtime parameters accessed by the mobile application during execution. For example when the additional information is needed during execution the mobile application can access those defined parameters to determine the proper location for any dynamic data associated with the application. In some instances the mobile application may attempt to access the stored dynamic data each time the application is executed. In other instances the dynamic data may only be accessed by the mobile application in response to a request from another application or web server. In those instances the mobile application can access the information when requested but otherwise ignore the stored data during normal execution.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of a device that implements the systems and processes defined herein is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to request download and add dynamic information to a digitally signed mobile application without invalidating the application s digital signature.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device shows an external antenna the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface or GUI for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon an email application icon or other application icons.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backwards navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radio frequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS General Packet Radio Service GPRS Global System for Mobile communications GSM DMobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM chipset with an QUALCOMM transceiver and power management circuit.

The wireless or wireline computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wireline or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 3.0 connector or other wireless connector. Example wireline connectors include for example a IEEE FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wireline connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 3 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone or other type apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such as a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU is any appropriate computer processors. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive an internal hard disk drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to download and store a digitally signed mobile application and other additional dynamic information associated with the application. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that allow a mobile web browser to navigate to a web page associated with a particular domain distributing a particular mobile application and request that the mobile application be downloaded from the web page. The computer program product may further include instructions that allow the mobile application to communicate with the domain associated with web page to download dynamic application data to the mobile device. Still further the computer program product can include further instructions that allow the mobile application to access the dynamic application data without invalidating the application s digital signature.

The operating system may be MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE SYMBIAN OS a LINUX based operating system such as the ANDROID mobile device operating system APPLE MAC OS X a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW Symbian JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access an email application an instant messaging application a video service application a mapping application or an imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

A number of embodiments of the present disclosure have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. For example various forms of the flows shown above may be used with steps re ordered added or removed. Also although several types of mobile applications have been described any appropriate mobile application is contemplated in the present disclosure. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

