---

title: Contact center co-browsing for a mobile device
abstract: Methods and systems of co-browsing may provide for determining a custom set of display parameters for a co-browsing session based on a first set of display parameters corresponding to a first type of browser and a second set of display parameters corresponding to a second type of browser. One or more web applications can be notified of the custom set of display parameters, wherein the web applications may override responses to web requests during the co-browsing session based on the custom set of display parameteters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367635&OS=09367635&RS=09367635
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09367635
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110212
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to co browsing sessions. More particularly embodiments relate to co browsing sessions between mobile and desktop devices.

Web widgets may support peer to peer co browsing sessions in which two users share viewed pages and may even share highlighted portions of the pages. There may be some scenarios however in which the participants of a co browsing session use devices that have different display capabilities. For example a handheld device user could participate in a co browsing session with a contact center e.g. help desk participant who is operating a desktop computer. In such a case certain pages or page content that is viewable on one device may not be viewable on the other device.

Embodiments may involve a computer implemented method in which a custom set of display parameters is determined for a co browsing session based on a first set of display parameters corresponding to a first type of browser and a second set of display parameters corresponding to a second type of browser. The method can also provide for notifying one or more web applications of the custom set of display parameters. The web applications may be hosted on different servers.

Embodiments may also include a computer program product having a computer readable storage medium and computer usable code stored on the computer readable storage medium. If executed by a processor the computer usable code can cause a computer to determine a custom set of display parameters for a co browsing session based on a first set of display parameters corresponding to a first type of browser and a second set of display parameters corresponding to a second type of browser. The computer usable code may also cause a computer to notify one or more web applications of the custom set of display parameters. The web applications may be hosted on different servers.

Other embodiments may involve a computer implemented method in which a notification of a custom set of display parameters is received wherein the custom set of display parameters is associated with a co browsing session between a first type of browser and a second type of browser. The method can provide for receiving a web request from a browser associated with the co browsing session and overriding a response to the web request based on the custom set of display parameters.

In addition embodiments can include a computer program product having a computer readable storage medium and computer usable code stored on the computer readable storage medium. If executed by a processor the computer usable code may cause a computer to receive a notification of a custom set of display parameters associated with a co browsing session between a first type of browser and a second type of browser. The computer usable code can also cause a computer to receive a web request from a browser associated with the co browsing session and override a response to the web request based on the custom set of display parameters.

Embodiments may also involve a computer implemented method in which a first co browsing registration message is received and a first set of display parameters is identified based on the first co browsing registration message. The first set of display parameters can correspond to a first type of browser including at least one of a desktop laptop and tablet browser. In addition a second co browsing registration message may be received where the method can provide for identifying a second set of display parameters based on the second co browsing registration message. The second set of display parameters can correspond to second type of browser including a handheld device browser. A custom set of display parameters may be determined for a co browsing session based on the first and second sets of display parameters. The method can also involve receiving a web request from a browser associated with the co browsing session and overriding a response to the web request based on the custom set of display parameters.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring now to a networking architecture is shown in which desktop user equipment UE device participates in a co browsing session with handheld UE device over a network . For example the desktop UE device might be a contact center computer operated by personnel e.g. customer service help desk technical support personnel of an organization and or enterprise whereas the handheld UE device could be a device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or wireless smartphone operated by an individual in need of assistance and or guidance from the personnel. Generally the co browsing session may involve both UE devices concurrently viewing web content provided by an application such as a web application running on a server . During the co browsing session the operator of each UE device may navigate to various web pages and select areas of web pages wherein these actions are displayed to the operator of the other device. The participants of the co browsing session can also navigate to web pages of other applications hosted other servers not shown .

Moreover logic running on a server can register the UE devices for the co browsing session prior to or during the co browsing session. In one example the server might function as a REST REpresentative State Transfer service server that characterizes and constrains the macro interactions of origin servers gateways proxies and clients without imposing limitations on the individual participants. The web application and logic could alternatively reside on the same server or other platform.

The UE device connections to the network could include a wireless data connection e.g. IEEE 802.11 1999 Edition LAN MAN Wireless LANS WiFi IEEE 802.16 2004 LAN MAN Broadband Wireless LANS WiMAX etc. a cellular telephone connection e.g. W CDMA UMTS CDMA2000 IS 856 IS 2000 etc. a wired data connection e.g. RS 232 Electronic Industries Alliance EIA Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 2005 LAN MAN CSMA CD Access Method power line communication e.g. X10 IEEE P1675 USB e.g. Universal Serial Bus 2.0 Specification etc. depending upon the circumstances. The UE devices could be located in the same physical location or in different locations.

In addition the network can include any suitable combination of servers access points routers base stations mobile switching centers public switching telephone network PSTN components etc. to facilitate communication between the UE devices and the servers . The servers may include distributed and or redundant web based servers that are able to respond to web page requests for content. Thus the servers can have stored thereon hypertext markup language HTML and other markup language encoded content as well as databases and applications such as Java and other applications. The servers could also be part of a cloud computing environment in which resources are shared across platforms in a complex fashion.

Generally the UE devices may each use a different type of browser to access the web content on the server . For example the illustrated desktop UE device includes a browser having a viewing capability that supports devices with relatively large screens such as desktop laptop and tablet computers. Examples of such browser types may include but are not limited to Firefox from Mozilla Internet Explorer from Microsoft etc. The illustrated handheld UE device on the other hand includes a browser that has limited viewing capability relative to the browser due at least in part to the UE device having a smaller screen. Examples of such browser types could include but are not limited to Firefox Mobile from Mozilla Internet Explorer for Mobile from Microsoft other device specific proprietary browsers e.g. Apple iPhone web browser etc.

As will be discussed in greater detail the logic may determine a custom set of display parameters for the co browsing session based on a set of display parameters corresponding to the type of browser running on the desktop UE device and a set of display parameters corresponding to the type of browser running on the handheld UE . The custom set of display parameters could constitute a least common denominator between the two browser specific sets of display parameters or could represent the appropriate web response enhancements needed to enable the co browsing session between the two different types of browsers .

Additionally the logic may notify the web application of the custom set of display parameters so that link events and click events occurring during the co browsing session are properly displayed on both UE devices. For example the illustrated web application includes logic to override standard responses to web requests corresponding to link and click events based on the custom set of display parameters. Thus the browser running on the desktop UE device might request a page from a full web site e.g. www.foo.com wherein the logic instead returns a corresponding page from a mobile web site e.g. m.foo.com if the custom set of display parameters indicate that the handheld UE device does not have the capability to view the full site.

In another example the custom set of display parameters may indicate that one or more special display related headers e.g. device type browser type browser version connection type etc. should be added to the response to the web request in order for a particular type of browser to view the response properly. Thus a click event e.g. item selection from a displayed web page occurring on the handheld UE device may require the addition of a certain header to the event notification response sent to the desktop UE device in order for the click event to be viewed properly by the desktop browser . Similarly a click event occurring on the desktop UE device could require the addition of a certain header to the event notification response sent to the handheld UE device. The display related headers may also be used to support the notification of link events and other events to be shared during the co browsing session.

Turning now to a method of establishing a co browsing session is shown. The method could be implemented in logic of a server such as a REST service platform or other platform. Illustrated processing block provides for receiving a co browsing registration message from a first type of browser and illustrated processing block provides for receiving a co browsing registration message from a second type of browser. As already noted the first type of browser might be a desktop laptop and or tablet type of browser having both large screen and small screen viewing capability whereas the second type of browser could be a handheld device type of browser having only small screen viewing capability. In addition the registration messages may include requests for a link to a co browsing session launch page invitations to other devices to join the co browsing sessions responses to such requests and or invitations and so on.

A first set of display parameters can be identified based on the registration message from the first type of browser and a second set of display parameters can be identified based on the registration message from the second type of browser at block . For example it might be determined that the first type of browser has both large screen and small screen capability and or that the first type of browser is associated with certain display related headers e.g. device type browser type browser version connection type etc. . Additionally it could be determined that the second type of browser has only large screen capability and or that the second type of browser has its own corresponding display related header information.

Illustrated block provides for determining a custom set of display parameters based on the identified browser specific sets of display parameters. As already noted the custom set of display parameters could constitute a least common denominator between the two browser specific sets of display parameters or could represent the appropriate web response enhancements needed to enable the co browsing session between the two different types of browsers. One or more web applications may be notified of the custom set of display parameters at block . The notified web applications could be hosted on different servers.

For example if the web request corresponds to a link event that indicates a page from a certain site e.g. www.foo.com block might automatically substitute a page from another site e.g. m.foo.com for the requested page. Moreover block could add display related header information to the response. In particular the additional header information might instruct one of the browsers e.g. full screen browser to display the returned page in the case of a link event or click animation in the case of a click event as if it were displayed in the browser of the other type e.g. handheld device browser . Similar functionality may be achieved with regard to the handheld device browser depending upon the viewing capabilities of the handheld device browser. The override may take place entirely on the server side and obviate any need for making modifications to or replacing the browsers participating in the co browsing session.

Turning now to a scenario is shown in which logic receives a web request from a desktop browser during a co browsing session with a mobile browser wherein the web request identifies a page from the full version of a web site e.g. www.foo.com . In such a case the logic can consult a custom set of display parameters which might indicate that both the desktop browser and mobile browser have handheld device viewing capability. Thus rather than returning a response that contains the requested page from the full version of the web site and corresponding desktop browser header information the illustrated logic overrides the response with a response that includes a similar page from the mobile version of the web site e.g. m.foo.com and the appropriate display related header information to instruct the desktop browser to display the returned page as a mobile page.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions. In addition the terms first second etc. are used herein only to facilitate discussion and carry no particular temporal or chronological significance unless otherwise indicated.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate from the foregoing description that the broad techniques of the embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore while the embodiments of this invention have been described in connection with particular examples thereof the true scope of the embodiments of the invention should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the drawings specification and following claims.

