---

title: Monitoring services and platform for multiple outlets
abstract: A monitoring services and platform for multiple outlets includes: communicating with a plurality of sources in order to obtain at least one piece of content from each one of the plurality of sources; displaying, via a central user interface, the obtained content; and displaying, via the central user interface, a control which if selected causes an action to be performed on at least one piece of the displayed content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09117058&OS=09117058&RS=09117058
owner: ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09117058
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110111
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 427 000 entitled MONITORING SERVICES AND PLATFORM FOR MULTIPLE OUTLETS filed Dec. 23 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

People who manage brands brand managers are interested in monitoring commentary on the internet regarding their brands or competitors brands. Brand managers may read the commentary to gauge interest in their marketing materials receive feedback regarding their products or take further action regarding any inflammatory postings. Interactive websites such as social networks and blogs for example are part of a growing market for online brand marketing. Typical methods for brand management across interactive websites include manually creating accounts for each of the websites and frequently checking the content posted to such accounts or periodically querying online e.g. via a search engine for information regarding the relevant brands. Often times the same website or webpage consistently contain commentary or other information that is of interest to brand managers. Depending on the type of commentary posted to a particular website brand managers may desire to take action with respect to the particular commentary or base further marketing methods upon such commentary. However monitoring content through manually creating and checking accounts or online queries is time consuming and also difficult to coordinate among multiple brand managers working with the same brand s . It would be desirable to develop new techniques to monitor online commentary relevant across

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

Monitoring posted content across multiple sources in an efficient manner is disclosed herein. Posted content from various sources from one or more platforms is obtained. In various embodiments posted content from the various sources are presented at a central user interface for monitoring. Multiple users may have access to one account e.g. the same information at the interface. The posted content may be monitored to trigger an action to be taken with respect to the posted content. Various embodiments include replying to the posted content deleting the posted content or assigning the posted content to a user e.g. by an assigned marketing or public relations employee within a company who is to take an action with respect to the posted content. Some other embodiments of an action to be taken include assigning a sentiment to the posted content e.g. using an automated and or third party sentiment assignment system republishing the posted content to an outlet. In some embodiments past actions regarding the posted content may be accumulated analyzed and or viewed e.g. in the form of an audit trail or a log of previous actions taken .

As used herein a platform may include a website such as a social network or blog or web feed e.g. Facebook Twitter Blogger RSS YouTube . In some embodiments the platform may permit interaction by users or viewers or account holders. As used herein a source may include an account or a channel on a platform. In some embodiments a source may require authentication before content at the source may be viewed. For example Facebook requires a person to login to an account and to be a friend of another person before seeing content on that other person s page and anonymous viewing of content is not permitted. As used herein a posted content or content or presented content or obtained content may include one or more comments e.g. Facebook comment comment to a blog post reply to a previous comment or uploaded postings e.g. images and associated metadata text rich media URLs at one or more sources. As described above content may comprise a variety of forms and or types. As used herein a sentiment refers to an opinion or feeling associated with a presented content.

In one example application of the technique brand managers may desire to monitor commentary or conversations on the internet that relate to the brands they manage. Certain sources may contain information or posted commentary that are relevant to brands that a brand manager manages. Some examples include managing the brand or reputation of a recording artist or band a women s clothing line or a small business e.g. a bakery restaurant etc. . Receiving and presenting all desired content to be monitored at a central interface permits brand managers to efficiently consume and manage the plethora of information across multiple sources from a single interface. If a brand manager desires he may take an action with respect to a monitored content inline at the central interface that is without having to navigate away from the interface in order to take or otherwise perform a desired action. In some embodiments the result of the action taken with respect to a monitored content may be displayed at the source without the brand managers needing to directly interact with or go to a source e.g. log into an account associated with the platform of the source and reply to a posted comment at the webpage of the source . Examples of actions include assigning a sentiment replying to or deleting the content. In some embodiments more than one brand manager manages the same brand s each may access the central interface as a user and access the same information. Multiple users may utilize the central interface to share the responsibilities regarding the monitoring and management of posted content in an organized and collaborative fashion.

As shown in this example posted content at the sources are presented in windows and . Window is presenting content specifically a Twitter Tweet from source tylerwillis and window is presenting content specifically a Facebook comment posted at source involver by poster Timur Lubinsky. Each of windows show presents content from a monitored source. As shown in user interface posted content may include text e.g. a Twitter Tweet in window and or URL e.g. the link in window or in window . The user interfaces described herein including user interface are central or single user interfaces. That is they are user interfaces from which content from a plurality of sources and or platforms can be viewed e.g. together or all at once . Similarly with respect to management and taking an action on one or more of the content a central or single user interface permits management of and or processing to be performed on one or more pieces of content from a single or central interface without for example having to navigate away to other and or multiple websites associated with each individual source or individual platform.

In some embodiments the sources are identified or specified e.g. by their URL and then added for monitoring at the central monitoring interface. In some embodiments users of the central interface are administrators of the sources e.g. users can access the user account of Internal Test 1 account in the case of Facebook because they are authorized users who know the username and password for Internal Test 1 account . In some embodiments the sources are available to the public and or are anonymously accessible e.g. any member of the public may view content at the source without authentication or providing their identity . In some embodiments posted content at the monitored sources are obtained e.g. via the central interface periodically communicating with the API of the platform associated with each source to pull newly posted content .

One example of using user interface is a brand manager who would like to monitor posted content at various sources which he believes contains relevant information regarding brands that he manages. Sources may include websites at which the brand manager has accounts or websites that are available to the public. Relevant information may include feedback commentary postings regarding brands that the brand manager manages or regarding brands of competing brands. By using user interface the brand manager may monitor content posted at multiple sources across one or more platforms all at one central user interface without needing to manually access each source at each platform. If the brand manager desires he may also perform actions to posted content at the central interface and in some embodiments the actions would entail content displayed at the sources in appearances that conform to the display configurations of the associated platforms. This way the brand manager may monitor and even interact with relevant conversations or commentary across the internet efficiently at one central user interface.

In some embodiments monitoring server communicates with brand manager via network to present the content posted at selected sources. For example the content presented may be feedback or a response by commentator in response to or in reaction to content posted by brand manager e.g. a brand manager posts an announcement about a sale or promotion and commentator expresses excitement about the sale or promotion . In another example commentator posts content out of the blue that is not necessarily directly tied to or associated with a specific piece of content by brand manager such as a comment I love Tummy Rub dog toys . In various embodiments network includes various high speed data networks and or telecommunications networks. Although this figure shows brand manager as communicating via a computer a variety of devices may be used including but not limited to a Internet browser application or a specialized application running on a smart phone or other device. Monitoring server may be linked to various sources at various platforms not shown . Links between monitoring server and various sources may be established via but not limited to the following examples a secure authentication service or an exchange of identification information and passwords.

In another example brand manager manages a brand associated with a line of tennis shoes. In that example the brand manager may have accounts e.g. the brand manager may be the administrator of the accounts at platforms that are dedicated to distributing information regarding the brand s line of tennis shoes. The brand manager may also know about certain webpages that contain relevant information to the brand s line of tennis shoes. For example other relevant webpages include publicly viewable webpages at one or more platforms competitors webpages blogs with posts that relate to tennis shoes and webpages that rate new tennis shoes. The brand manager would input information e.g. identification and or authentication information regarding the sources he wishes to monitor at the user interface. The user interface would then obtain content posted at the selected sources and present the content to the brand manager. In some cases the brand manager may select an action with respect to the presented content at the user interface if he feels that action is warranted. Among the actions that the brand manager may take include replying to a piece of content deleting a piece of content assigning a sentiment to the piece of content assigning the posted content to another user e.g. a colleague of the brand manager and republishing the posted content. This way the brand manager may monitor relevant commentary regarding the brands he manages across various sources associated with different platforms at one location or central single user interface. The brand manager may also interact with such commentary keep track of trends related to the commentary and also coordinate monitoring activities with his colleagues.

Monitoring server obtains content from various sources. In some embodiments sources are publicly or anonymously viewable websites or webpages e.g. websites or webpages that do not require authentication or identification for access . In some embodiments sources require authentication before content may be accessed from them. Monitoring server obtains the content from a source through one or more of the following pulling the content off the server associated with the source communicating with the application programming interface API associated with the platform that corresponds to the source querying the server associated with the source for updated content or any other appropriate technique. In some embodiments monitoring server obtains content from the sources periodically. In some embodiments monitoring server obtains content from the sources whenever it detects a change at the sources e.g. monitoring server can periodically check the sources for any changes such as newly posted content or updates made to existing content . In some embodiments monitoring server obtains content from the sources at a request by a user.

Monitoring server provides content from these various sources and or platforms to brand manager via a user interface. In some embodiments the user interface may be accessed through one or more accounts for example where each account is associated with a different person or employee who is involved in the monitoring and or managing of comments or posts. In one example the content relates to a band and people associated with the band e.g. the manager or agent of the band the band s record company e.g. the band s contact or manager at the record company or other music industry professionals e.g. publicists each have an account and may access the content from the various sources using the user interface by logging in using their respective accounts and accessing the user interface. In some embodiments each account at the user interface may be accessed by one or more users e.g. there may be more than one publicist working on the account and all publicists use the same publicists account .

Monitoring server may receive an action to be taken with respect to one or more posted content. In some embodiments monitoring server may perform the specified action and present a result of the action. In various embodiments the action is selected and inputted into the user interface by a user. In some embodiments the received action entails receiving text to be published at the source e.g. a response to a posted content such as Thanks We re glad you love our products in response to the comment I love Tummy Rub dog toys and publishing the received text at the source. The received text may appear at the user interface and may be grouped with the display of the original post so that brand manager knows that the action has been taken and the content on which the action was performed. In some embodiments a posted content may be deleted and such a deletion is reflected at the source e.g. commentator posted a negative and or inappropriate comment such as Tummy Rub dog toys suck. on the Facebook account of Tummy Rub dog toys deletion via the user interface is performed at the user interface as well as on the Facebook account of Tummy Rub dog toys . In some embodiments a reply to or a deletion of a posted content is only possible at the user interface if the user is also an administrator of the source at which the action is to be performed e.g. continuing the example above the person doing the deletion has the username and password of the Tummy Rub Facebook account and thus has ability or authorization to delete content on the Tummy Rub Facebook account . In some embodiments monitoring server performs a reply or deletion by communicating with the API of the platform with which the source is associated.

Besides replying to or deleting posted content monitoring server may receive instructions to perform other actions and perform such actions on the selected content. Other actions include assigning or selecting a sentiment for a piece of posted content assignment a posted content to a user republishing the posted content filtering the obtained posted content based on selected keywords among others. More information regarding the actions is disclosed below.

Monitoring server may also store historical information regarding posted content. In some embodiments historical information may include the time when each piece of content was posted with which source and platform the content is associated whether an action with respect to the content has been performed to which user the posted content was assigned among other information. In some embodiments monitoring server may store historical information and or group the stored information based on for example the related platform assigned user date time and action that is associated with the content.

Brand manager communicates with monitoring server over network to select sources to monitor view the content posted at the sources and perform actions with respect to the posted content. Brand manager may communicate with the monitoring server via a computing device or mobile device e.g. smart phone or tablet . In some embodiments monitoring server adjusts the display of content depending on the type of device that brand manager uses. For example different viewing devices e.g. devices from which the central interface may be accessed may entail different sizes of displays. So monitoring server will adjust the display content to the appropriate format of whichever display size is used on the viewing device e.g. monitoring server may detect the type of device used through its access of the central interface . In some embodiments brand manager may provide information to monitoring server via a user interface such as user interface . In some embodiments a brand manager or other user accesses an account on such a user interface by accessing a website e.g. www.involver.com and entering security or verification information e.g. a user name password stored token etc. . In some embodiments other users besides brand manager may access and utilize the user interface. In some embodiments brand manager may select at least one source to monitor through the user interface not shown . Brand manager consumes the posted content obtained from the selected source s via a presentation of the obtained content by the user interface. In some embodiments brand manager may select an action with respect to a presented content at the user interface.

In step the obtained content from the at least one source is presented at a central user interface. The display shown in user interface of shows one such embodiment of this. In some embodiments the obtained content may be displayed in chronological or reverse chronological order at the user interface. In some embodiments the display at the user interface may be refreshed periodically or in response to the obtainment of newly posted content at the sources. In some embodiments the obtained content is displayed at the user interface in accordance with the display configurations or requirements or selected sorting of the user interface e.g. sort from oldest to newest sort from newest to oldest sort based on platform sort based on prioritization display based on a whether an action has been assigned or not display content associated with selected type s of actions assigned to the content show only content assigned to specified user s display only unfinished actions a selected sorting based on creation time of a content an algorithmically computed importance of the content a user to whom the content is assigned a algorithmically computed importance of a creator of the content whether media is attached or a sentiment assigned to the content etc. . In some embodiments in the event that identifying information for a commentator who posted some content is available such information is also displayed with the posted content at the user interface.

In step a control associated with an action to be executed with respect to the presented content is provided. In some embodiments the control may be an interactive area of the user interface e.g. a clickable button a pull down menu radio buttons input box a selectable icon etc. that a user may select or click or choose in some manner specifying and action to be assigned or taken with that content and any related parameters controls or specifications e.g. if the action is to assign the content to someone the parameter may be the assignee . Some examples of controls and associated actions are shown in and in other figures herein. In the event that a provided control is selected e.g. by clicking on a button or selecting from a pull down menu an indication of a selected control is received at the user interface presented by the monitoring server. In various embodiments in response to receiving the indication the monitoring server performs at least a portion of the action associated with the selected control.

A control is associated with an action and the action is to be executed for a presented content from at least once source. As mentioned above some actions e.g. replying to or deleting to be executed with respect to a presented content may entail a corresponding update at the sources. Some actions e.g. assigning a content to another user of the user interface entail sending a notification to another user. Some actions e.g. republishing content entail publishing content at a selected outlet in which publication privileges are available. Some actions e.g. assigning or selecting sentiment for a piece of content entail selecting appropriate metadata e.g. in the case of a binary sentiment whether the sentiment is positive or negative and storing that metadata at the user interface with the presented content. Further details regarding actions are described below.

The following figures show in more detail some features regarding monitoring sources across one or more platforms some features which have been already been discussed and some features which have yet to be mentioned.

Returning to the former example of the brand manager who wishes to monitor posted content at various sources the brand manager may use the assignment feature as exemplified in to assign tasks to other colleagues who also have access to the user interface. For example the brand manager may come across content from a source that is presented at the user interface and discover that the content contains language that may potentially entail undesirable legal liability for the brand manager and the brands he manages. Thus the brand manager can assign the relevant content to another user e.g. an in house attorney at the company of the brand manager with more legal knowledge to review and possibly take action with respect to the content e.g. delete the posted content . Also the brand manager may include notes addressing his concerns e.g. such as in input window with the assignment to inform the assigned user reasons for this assignments points of interest etc. In another example the comment is related to a bug in software and the comment is assigned to a software developer or software tester. As another example of the use of the assignment feature is to spread the responsibility of monitoring a potentially large amount of incoming content among several members of a team. For example for positive comments that simply require a thank you or acknowledgement the comment may be assigned to a pool of interns. In some cases they all use the same account e.g. an intern account or have individual accounts e.g. in their own name .

As shown in this example a sentiment for a presented content may be manually assigned via a user interface by a user of the user interface. In some embodiments a sentiment for a presented content is automatically assigned i.e. assignment of sentiment is not done manually by users of the user interface . In some embodiment the sentiment may be automatically assigned by a third party service e.g. CrowdFlower which may communicate with a server associated with user interface to assign sentiment to the presented content. In some embodiments a third party may assign sentiment based on automatic detection of certain keywords natural language processing or any other appropriate technique.

A user may input a reply to a presented content at user interface inside reply box . In some embodiments a user may input any message including text images rich media and links in reply box . One example of a situation when a user might desire to reply to a posted content may be to engage in a conversation with the poster of the content and any subsequent posters to the same chain of comments. When the user finishes entering the desired reply in reply box he may select Publish button to post the entered reply.

In various embodiments in response to the user selecting a Publish button the monitoring server will display the reply comment with the originally presented content. In various embodiments the reply comment will also be displayed at the source in conformity with the display configuration or requirements associated with the platform at the source. In some embodiments the monitoring server will communicate with a publication server to publish a reply comment at the source. In some embodiments the publication server includes a publication module for each platform that is associated with a source of which a user is an administrator. For example the publication server may have a Facebook publication module a Twitter publication module etc. A publication module in some embodiments receives authentication information e.g. from the monitoring server or via a prompt to a user and establishes communication with the source to perform authentication as needed. Each platform publication module then communicates with the API of the corresponding platform translates the reply comment to accommodate the specific features and requirements of the platform and instructs the platform s API s to publish the reply comment at the relevant source. Examples of translating the reply comment may include but is not limited to the following creating a separate webpage at which the attached image is displayed e.g. for the Twitter platform where a link to an image is provided as opposed to displaying the image itself in a tweet and including the link to the separate page in the reply comment applying font stylizations to the text of the reply comment arranging the location of an image and its associated metadata e.g. the image is always placed on the left in a published display with its associated metadata . In one example a reply to a comment made in Facebook results in calling the Facebook publication module to communicate with Facebook s API.

To delete a posted content the Delete button in prompt is selected. Upon selecting Delete in prompt the user interface at least in this example stores the now deleted content with metadata indicating that it has been deleted from the source. Also in response to selecting Delete in prompt the monitoring server may communicate with the publication server which then calls the relevant publication module of the platform associated with the source at which the deletion is to take place e.g. the Twitter publication module or the Facebook publication module . The relevant platform publication module then communicates with the API of the relevant platform to delete the posted content. In some embodiments a publication server when obtaining posted content to be deleted obtains some identifier or link for that content which is used to delete that piece of content. For example if the content to be deleted is Tummy Rub dog toys suck on a Facebook page when that piece of content is obtained to be displayed in user interface the publication server or underlying publication module obtains and stores an identifier used by the Facebook platform to identify that post. Selecting the Tummy Rub dog toys suck Facebook post to be deleted causes the stored identifier associated with that post to be retrieved and passed to the Facebook API via the Facebook publication module.

As shown in this example user interface permits a user to select or otherwise control the sources associated with the displayed content. In this particular example only the source Internal Test 1 on the Facebook platform is selected and therefore only content associated with Internal Test 1 which is assigned to the user Brian Grabowski is displayed. Similarly a user may specify a state or status to control what is displayed. In this example Inbox is selected. Other states or statuses which may be selected include archived and deleted.

As shown in the example of a keyword alert may be set up using the interactive fields and . In name field a user may create a name for the filter. In the example shown in user interface the name selected for the keyword alert is Bad words. In Assign to pull down menu the user may select the name of a user to whom the content is assigned when content containing the keywords specified in Keywords field is obtained at one or more of the sources selected from the Selected Sources menu . One or more keywords alerts may be created and or edited via user interface .

One advantage to setting up a keyword alert is to apply some form of intelligent filtering of incoming content from the selected sources. This is particularly attractive when there is large volume of content where manual review or processing is difficult or impossible. For example a really popular band or product may have a very large number of Twitter tweets or Facebook posts related to them. Such filtering may enable that the more pertinent content i.e. content including a keyword or keywords to be automatically identified and assigned to a user.

Returning to the former example of the brand manager who wishes to monitor posted content at various sources the brand manager may set up keyword alerts so that he may be notified of notable situations. For example the brand manager may set up a keyword alert for monitored sources of which he is also an administrator to detect response to the brand manager s posted promotional material e.g. search for the name of a newly launched product . The brand manager may also set up a keyword alert related to a competitor e.g. to search for the name of the competitor or to search for specific keywords on a source owned or managed by the competitor . In another example the brand manager may set up a keyword alert for any sources to detect any content that could incur undesirable legal liability.

In some embodiments the frequency at which notifications e.g. an email are sent may be specified. For example a notification may be sent once a day or once a week as desired. In response to receiving a notification the assigned user e.g. Brian Grabowski may access the user interface and deal with the assigned content appropriately e.g. by responding to the content by deleting the content etc. .

In some embodiments a list of content assigned to a user is prioritized and if desired subsequently limited at least temporarily where lower priority content may be accessed if desired for example using a user interface button for More or Low Priority Assignments to a certain number or those having a certain level of importance or priority. In cases where there is a significant amount of content to be reviewed and or managed prioritizing and or limiting content presented to a user may be useful since it enables the person to whom the content is assigned to better prioritize or manage their responsibilities for example to that assigned content identified by the system to be of the highest priority. In some embodiments the user interface is configured to display to a user such a prioritized and or restricted list. In some embodiments a notification e.g. an email generated by a user interface is configured to present to a user such a prioritized and or restricted list. In some embodiments a user interface assigns importance based on how an item of content came to be assigned to a person. In some embodiments when content is assigned manually by a person that piece of content has higher priority than another piece of content assigned automatically e.g. based on keyword matching . In some embodiments if manual assignment occurs the level of importance is based on the status or role of a person e.g. an assignment by a person with the role of Admin has lower importance compared an assignment by a person with a role of Moderator or the identity of the person e.g. an assignment by the CEO of a company has the highest importance . In some embodiments when manual assignment is performed an assignor has the ability to set one or more levels of importance e.g. High versus Low importance an importance level of 1 5 etc. . In some embodiments a user interface is able to be configured so that how a user interface prioritizes assigned content when generating a prioritized and or limited list may be adjusted as desired .

In some embodiments a keyword alert may include another action to be performed on the obtained content that contains the keywords besides automatic assignment to a user. For example in user interface in place of Assign to field another action may be entered in the field or chosen from a menu of possible actions. The action may include assigning a sentiment replying to deleting the content or republishing for example. That way user interface may be modified to become a keyword filter that automatically performs any selected action on keywords that are detected in obtained content. For example user interface may set up a keyword filter that detects certain foul language e.g. configured as the keywords and automatically delete e.g. as the selected action the obtained content among which the foul language was detected.

In one example a pet store announces a sale on Tummy Rub dog toys via the store s publically accessible Facebook account. A user such as a brand manager wants to repost this on the Twitter and Facebook pages of the Tummy Rub company. User interface obtains the original post and includes it in editing window . The user can add to the content for example by adding the text Tummy Rub dog toys on sale at Fog City Pet Store and or tags to the republished message. In the example shown in this figure tags include FB deals and nationwide.

The copied and possibly edited content in editing window may be published to one or more outlets associated with one or more platforms. Unlike replying to content as exemplified in republishing content entails publishing at an outlet which is different than the source from which the content was obtained. In replying to content the reply is published at the source from which the content was obtained. However content obtained from one source may be republished to another source if the other source is an outlet. An outlet is an account at a platform e.g. Facebook Twitter etc . In order to publish at an outlet a user must be an administrator at the outlet e.g. the user must have or have access to authentication information regarding the outlet . In contrast a user may monitor any source of which he is an administrator or any source that is available to the public e.g. no authentication is required to view the webpage .

In some embodiments when content is to be republished a monitoring server associated with user interface communicates to a publication server. The publication server is linked to the outlets to which a user desires to republish or publish content. Links between the publication server and various outlets may be established via but not limited to the following examples a secure authentication service or an exchange of identification information and passwords. Regardless of the method of linking the publication server and various outlets the result of the linking is that the publication server has the ability to publish content at the various outlets. In some embodiments the publication server comprises of one publication module for each platform supported. The publication server receives the content to be republished and the selection of outlets to which the content is to be republished. Each platform publication module retrieves the authentication information for its respective selected outlets e.g. from a storage of outlet authentication information and establishes communication with each of the outlets to perform authentication as needed. Each platform publication module then communicates with the API of the corresponding platform translates the content to be republished to accommodate the specific features and requirements of the platform and instructs the platform s API s to publish the content. Examples of translating the content may include but is not limited to the following creating a separate webpage at which the attached image is displayed and including the link to the separate page in the content applying font stylizations to the text of the content arranging the location of an image and its associated metadata e.g. the image is always placed on the left in a published display with its associated metadata .

As shown in the example of platforms and e.g. Wordpress Facebook and Twitter respectively are platforms at which content may be published. Outlets at which content may be published are listed below each respective platform. A user may select one or more outlets across one or more platforms at which the copied and edited content within editing window may be published. The user may select Publish now button to publish the content at the selected outlets within editing window and any attached link or image via the technique described above. The underlying publication modules will take care of any necessary processing as required by the specific rules or layout formats of the various platforms.

Returning to the former example of a brand manager the brand manager may use either manual republishing one embodiment of which is shown in or automatic republishing one embodiment of which is shown in to regularly update a website i.e. an outlet that he maintains. For example the brand manager may maintain an interactive website e.g. a Facebook Fan Page in which he posts information regarding a new line of tennis shoes that is produced by a brand that the brand manager manages. One of the goals of the brand manager is to promote consistent activity on the website so that viewers have more incentive to frequently return to the website. By republishing content from another source onto the website the brand manager may benefit from the ease of generating information without needing to create original material. Also the brand manager may also use republishing to easily reference and reproduce content from a source that contains relevant information e.g. a positive review of the new line of tennis shoes posted by an influential blogger .

In some embodiments when a user first accesses a user interface the user interface or an underlying server determines a role for that user and which actions are permitted for that user and or role. In some embodiments controls associated with actions that are not permitted are grayed out or otherwise made inaccessible to that user to prevent that user from taking those actions. For example if Christie Sultemeier in interface is assigned a role of Admin and that role is only permitted to view content and assign it to another user but not delete or respond to content then controls associated with deleting and responding may not be activated for Christie.

In some embodiments settings associated with a particular role are able to be specified. For example content may be assigned to a role as opposed to a specific person and a notification frequency for a specific role e.g. a frequency for the role of Editor may be specified using a user interface similar to that shown herein.

In some embodiments clicking on the name of the assigned content e.g. check this out . . . causes the user to navigate to a user interface which provides controls for taking actions on that piece of content e.g. deleting the piece of content responding to the content republishing the content etc. . In some embodiments clicking on the name of the source e.g. Internal Test 1 causes the user to navigate to a user interface which displays content obtained from that source e.g. relevant content from the Internal Test 1 Facebook page as well as controls for performing actions on the presented content.

The previous figures show some exemplary features and associated user interfaces for supporting those features. In some embodiments features or services in addition to those described above are supported or otherwise provided. For example in some embodiments a central user interface also includes a support management tool not shown . One example of a support management tool is Get Satisfaction. A support management tool provides users with the ability to create a community of members where each member may have authorization to review or respond to the monitored content. In some cases the members of the community are third party users or are not officially related to or tied to an entity of interest. For example using the example of Tummy Rub dog toys the community members may simply be dog owners who take an interest in and enjoy commenting and or discussing dog related topics including dog toys. These user are not necessarily hired by or officially related to for example the Tummy Rub company. In some embodiments a user interface provides controls for managing parameters related to the community e.g. adding removing members assigning privileges and or permissions to members etc. . In some embodiments the support management tool may appear as tab at a Facebook page at the Facebook platform and settings or changes made via a user interface are propagated to or applied to a related source e.g. a specific Facebook page or platform e.g. Facebook .

In some embodiments a user interface is configured to store and present if requested a history of presented content and or associated actions and relevant metadata such as who the action was taken by e.g. the name of a specific user and the date time on which that action was taken. A benefit of storing the history is to provide audit trails for future reference and also to organize workflow between multiple users. In a various embodiments a user interface includes various controls for selecting and displaying an audit or history trail of interested. For example fields which may be specified via a user interface include source e.g. Facebook page Tummy Rub assignor assignee state e.g. Inbox Archived Deleted etc.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

