---

title: System, method, and computer program for providing access to a plurality of services through a unified application
abstract: A system, method, and computer program product are provided for providing access to a plurality of services through a unified application. In use, a plurality of services is associated with a unified application of an entity. Additionally, the unified application is installed within a landing page of the entity. Further, access to the plurality of services is provided to a plurality of users through the unified application of the landing page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009239&OS=09009239&RS=09009239
owner: Amdocs Software Systems Limited
number: 09009239
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20110127
---
The present invention relates to providing a plurality of services and more particularly to optimizing user interaction with a plurality of services.

Online services have become an increasingly important medium for business communication. For example social media have become a desired communication channel for consumers and have also become a preferred communication and marketing platform for enterprises as well as brands. Unfortunately conventional methods of utilizing such online services have exhibited various limitations. For example conventional methods of utilizing a plurality of online services fail to provide for unified authentication management and tracking of service usage.

A system method and computer program product are provided for providing access to a plurality of services through a unified application. In use a plurality of services is associated with a unified application of an entity. Additionally the unified application is installed within a landing page of the entity. Further access to the plurality of services is provided to a plurality of users through the unified application of the landing page.

Coupled to the network is a plurality of devices. For example a server computer and an end user computer may be coupled to the network for communication purposes. Such end user computer may include a desktop computer lap top computer and or any other type of logic. Still yet various other devices may be coupled to the network including a personal digital assistant PDA device a mobile phone device a television etc.

As shown a system is provided including at least one central processor which is connected to a communication bus . The system also includes main memory e.g. random access memory RAM etc. . The system also includes a graphics processor and a display .

The system may also include a secondary storage . The secondary storage includes for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Computer programs or computer control logic algorithms may be stored in the main memory the secondary storage and or any other memory for that matter. Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform various functions to be set forth below for example . Memory storage and or any other storage are possible examples of tangible computer readable media.

As shown in operation a plurality of services is associated with a unified application of an entity. In one embodiment the plurality of services may include one or more applications. For example the plurality of services may include one or more third party applications mobile applications cloud applications entity based applications etc. In another embodiment the plurality of services may include social media services.

For example the plurality of services may include one or more of a social messaging service an image sharing service a video sharing service etc. In yet another embodiment the plurality of services may include one or more web pages. For example the plurality of services may include one or more social media web pages video playback web pages entertainment web pages etc. In still another embodiment the plurality of services may require additional information e.g. from a user of the services a provider of the services etc. . For example the plurality of services may each require one or more of authentication approval identification etc.

Additionally in one embodiment the plurality of services may include one or more services associated with the entity. For example the plurality of services may include an application developed by the entity. In another embodiment the plurality of services may include one or more services developed by a party other than the entity e.g. one or more third party applications etc. . In yet another embodiment one or more of the plurality of services may operate according to a predetermined protocol.

In still another embodiment one or more of the plurality of services may be locally installed e.g. installed within the entity etc. . Additionally in one embodiment one or more of the plurality of services may be cloud based e.g. installed within a cloud computing environment etc. . Further in another embodiment one or more of the plurality of services may be mobile based e.g. installed and or run within a mobile device environment etc. .

Further in one embodiment the unified application may include any platform associated with the entity that manages the plurality of services for the entity. For example the unified application may control the display of one or more of the plurality of services. In another example the unified application may control input provided to one or more of the plurality of services. In yet another example the unified application may manage compatibility e.g. of a device used to view the plurality of services etc. eligibility e.g. based on one or more business parameters etc. personalization e.g. based on one or more user profiles etc. etc. Of course however the unified application may manage the plurality of services in any manner. In another embodiment the unified application may be associated with an application engine. In yet another embodiment the entity may include one or more of a particular brand organization company individual etc.

Further still as shown in operation the unified application is installed within a landing page of the entity. In one embodiment the landing page of the entity may include a page associated with the entity that is displayed to one or more users. For example the landing page may include one or more of a web page associated with the entity e.g. a main or central page associated with the entity etc. a portal associated with the entity etc. In another embodiment the unified application may be displayed to a user from within the landing page of the entity. For example the unified application may be displayed within a window located on the landing page.

Also as shown in operation access to the plurality of services is provided to a plurality of users through the unified application of the landing page. In one embodiment one or more of the plurality of services may be displayed to the plurality of users via the unified application. For example the unified application may display one or more images messages videos or other information associated with the plurality of services to the plurality of users.

In another embodiment each of the plurality of users may have to log in to one or more of the landing page and the unified application in order to access the plurality of services. For example each of the plurality of users may have to provide one or more of a user name and password in order to access the landing page and plurality of services. In yet another embodiment one or more actions of one or more of the plurality of users may be recorded by the unified application. For example the unified application may track each user s actions with respect to the plurality of services e.g. service usage messages videos and images viewed messages sent etc. .

Additionally in one embodiment the one or more actions may be recorded in response to one or more criteria. For example the one or more actions of a user may be tracked in response to the user connecting to the landing page of the entity consuming one of the plurality of services managed by the unified application etc. In another embodiment one or more elements associated with the plurality of users may be recorded by the unified application. For example a time at which a user logged in to the landing page and or unified application may be recorded. In another example the length of time the user accesses one or more of the plurality of services may be recorded. In yet another example a source that referred the user to the landing page may be recorded.

Furthermore in one embodiment the one or more actions of the users and the one or more elements associated with the users may be recorded utilizing one or more monitoring modules. For example one or more monitoring application programming interfaces APIs may record and report the actions and associated elements. In another embodiment the one or more actions of the users and the one or more elements associated with the users may be stored. For example the one or more actions of the users and the one or more elements associated with the users may be stored in a database e.g. a user profile database etc. associated with the entity.

Further still in one embodiment a profile of one or more of the plurality of users may be determined based on their recorded actions and associated elements. For example a categorization may be determined for a user according to which of the plurality of services they access how long they access the services how often they access the landing page etc. In yet another embodiment the determined profiles may be stored in a database e.g. the user profile database etc. .

Also in one embodiment the landing page of the entity may be personalized for each of the plurality of users. In one embodiment the personalization of the landing page may be based on the profile determined for each of the plurality of users. For example a messaging and or promotional banner may be selected based on a profile of a user and may be presented to that user when the user accesses the landing page. In another embodiment access to the plurality of services may be configured based on the determined profile. For example for each service associated with the unified application the entity may configure one or more rules for the way the service is exposed to the plurality of users.

More specifically one or more eligibility rules may be established within the unified application that dictate when a user may access a particular service. For example the entity may establish a rule within the unified application that allows a particular application to be installed from the unified application only if another application is installed first. In another example the entity may establish a rule within the unified application that allows a user to view a page within the unified application only after visiting the landing page a predetermined amount of times within a certain time period. In another embodiment one or more of the plurality of services may be customized personalized etc. based on information gathered from another service. In this way a cross service exchange of information may be utilized in order to enhance access to the plurality of services.

Additionally in one embodiment the unified application may be in communication with a media platform external from the entity and landing page. For example the unified application may be in communication with a social media platform. In another embodiment the social media platform may provide one or more of the plurality of services to the unified application. In yet another embodiment the unified application may manage the plurality of services such that the plurality of services may be seen to the media platform as a single entity. For example the unified application of the landing page may include an enterprise landing page of a social networking web site e.g. Facebook etc. that hosts multiple applications of the social networking web site.

In still another embodiment the unified application may manage the plurality of services. For example the unified application may require a single authentication e.g. a username and password etc. for each user that accesses the landing page and may in turn provide access to the plurality of services to the user using the single authentication.

In this way the unified application may expose the plurality of services associated with it based on eligibility rules. Additionally the recorded user actions and determined profile for the user based on those actions may be used for analysis by the entity as well as personalization targeted advertising etc. Further each user may only need a single authentication authorization or approval in order to access all of the plurality of services. Further still the plurality of services may be encapsulated under the entity.

More illustrative information will now be set forth regarding various optional architectures and uses in which the foregoing method may or may not be implemented per the desires of the user. It should be strongly noted that the following information is set forth for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as limiting in any manner. Any of the following features may be optionally incorporated with or without the exclusion of other features described.

As shown the landing page layout includes a landing page situated within a social media platform . In one embodiment the landing page and the social media platform may be displayed within a browser e.g. a web browser a network browser etc. . In another embodiment the landing page may be accessed by selecting a hyperlink or other element of the social media platform . In yet another embodiment the landing page may be accessed by inputting a network address associated with the landing page into the browser.

Additionally in one embodiment the landing page may be displayed on a network page associated with a particular entity. For example the landing page may be displayed on a brand s web page. In another example the landing page may be displayed on a portal associated with the brand. Of course however the landing page may be displayed on any type of network page associated with the particular entity.

Further the landing page includes a plurality of services . In one embodiment the plurality of services may be provided by the social media platform . In another embodiment the plurality of services may be provided by a plurality of social media platforms in addition to the social media platform . Further still the landing page includes a promotional banner . In one embodiment the promotional banner may include one or more advertisements directed towards a user accessing the landing page .

In another embodiment the advertisements displayed within the promotional banner may be determined based on the user s interaction with the landing page . For example a unified application associated with the landing page may track which of the plurality of services are accessed by the user the amount of time the user interacts with the plurality of services and any other actions of the user with respect to the landing page . Additionally the unified application may analyze the results of the tracking and select relevant material for the promotional banner based on the analysis.

In this way a user may more easily access each of the plurality of services through the landing page where such services may be provided in a concise and organized manner. Additionally by using the landing page the user may avoid having to directly access the services through a variety of different pages channels portals etc. Further the brand may easily direct advertising to individual users based on their interaction with the landing page in the form of the directed promotional banner .

As shown a brand landing page within the unified management architecture includes a unified application . Additionally the unified application provides access to the plurality of services to a user . Further the unified application is in communication with a social media platform . In one embodiment the unified application may manage authentication between the user and the social media platform . For example the user may login to one or more of the plurality of services at the brand landing page where one or more of the plurality of services are provided by the social media platform .

Additionally the login information of the user may be transferred to the unified application via an authentication proxy . Further the unified application may relay the login information of the user associated with the plurality of services provided by the social media platform to the social media platform as a single authentication . In another embodiment one or more of the plurality of services may be provided by the brand e.g. via a server associated with the brand etc. .

In this way the unified application may maintain a single authentication key in front of the social media platform . Additionally by navigating all users and activities to the unified application the architecture may enable central management of the plurality of services and the creation of a unified profile and brand landing page for a user based on all of the user s activities across all of the plurality of services .

Also the way the user views and consumes the plurality of services may be differentiated from the way the plurality of services are enabled managed and authenticated in front of the social media platform . Further in another embodiment from the viewpoint of the user the user may access the plurality of services either directly or through the landing page .

Further in one embodiment each of the plurality of services may be supervised by the unified application . For example each of the plurality of services may have to work according to a protocol provided by the unified application . In another example each of the plurality of services may be authenticated by the unified application e.g. utilizing a special authentication key provided by the unified application etc. . In this way both internal and external services within the plurality of services may be launched on the brand landing page and may be managed by the unified application .

Further still the unified application is in communication with a unified application engine which is in turn in communication with a user profiles database . In one embodiment the unified application engine may control registration of the user with respect to the plurality of services . In another embodiment the unified application engine may monitor the actions of the user with respect to the plurality of services . In yet another embodiment based on the monitored actions of the user the unified application engine may create a profile for the user which may be sent to the user profiles database for storage.

Also in one embodiment based on the profile for the user stored in the user profiles database the unified application engine may control the allocation of the plurality of services to the user . Additionally a promotional banner may be tailored to the interests of the user based on the profile for the user . In this way value may be extracted in the form of detailed tracking and profiling of the user based on the activity of the user with respect to the consumption of the plurality of services .

Additionally the brand landing page may be personalized for the user based on the activity of the user such that though a plurality of users may return to the same landing page or applications that rely on the unified application the brand may have the ability to expose the users to personalized experiences together with brand messages promotions etc. based on each user s preferences. Authorization eligibility etc. Further the telecommunications identity of the user may be coupled with the social identity of the user .

Further still activities of the user across all of the plurality of services may be tracked. Also a personalized return channel may be provided to the user in the form of the landing page . Additionally the launching of the plurality of services may be separated without having to leverage one or more of the plurality of services for another. Further the brand may be able to add services to the plurality of services while still optimizing the engagement of all of the plurality of service with their users.

For example access to any of the plurality of services by the user may be fully identified and classified and this knowledge about the user may enable a personalized approach e.g. targeted messages campaigning etc. as well as a personalized experience via the brand landing page . Further still brands that launch a plurality of activities based on abilities provided by one or more social media platforms may better understand their user base by following activities of their users across the plurality of services provided to their users. Also one time unidentified and visiting users may be identified tracked and profiled based on their actions with respect to the plurality of services .

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

