---

title: Light control film
abstract: Disclosed is a light control film comprising: two of transparent conductive resin substrates each having a transparent conductive layer and a transparent resin substrate; and a light control layer interposed between the two transparent conductive resin substrates to be in contact with the transparent conductive layer sides, the light control layer containing: a resin matrix; and a light control suspension dispersed in the resin matrix, wherein: the transparent conductive layer contains an organic binder resin, and conductive particles dispersed in the organic binder resin, the mass ratio of the organic binder resin and the conductive particles is 50/50 to 10/90, and the entirety or a portion of the organic binder resin is composed of (meth)acrylate containing a hydroxyl group. The present invention can provide a light control film having excellent radio wave transparency and having satisfactory adhesiveness between the light control layer and the transparent conductive layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08681418&OS=08681418&RS=08681418
owner: Hitachi Chemical Company, Ltd.
number: 08681418
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110126
---
A light control glass containing a light control suspension was first invented by Edwin Land and the light control glass is in the form of a structure in which a liquid state light control suspension is inserted between two of transparent conductive substrates having a narrow gap therebetween see for example Patent Documents 1 and 2 . According to the invention by Edwin land the liquid state light control suspension inserted between the two transparent conductive substrates is such that when an electric field is not applied as a result of the Brownian motion of light control particles that are dispersed in the suspension most of the incident light rays are reflected scattered or absorbed by the light control particles and only a very small portion is transmitted.

That is the extent of transmission reflection scattering or absorption can be determined on the basis of the shape nature and concentration of the light control particles dispersed in the light control suspension and the amount of light energy irradiated. When an electric field is applied to a light control window which uses a light control glass having the above described structure an electric field is formed in the light control suspension through the transparent conductive substrates and the light control particles that exhibit a light control function cause polarization and are arranged in parallel to the electric field. Then light is transmitted between light control particles and eventually the light control glass becomes transparent. However such an initial light control apparatus had problems in practical use such as the aggregation of the light control particles inside the light control suspension sedimentation due to their own weights color phase change due to heat changes in the optical density deterioration caused by ultraviolet ray irradiation difficulties in keeping up the gap between the substrates and in the injection of the light control suspension into the gap and others. Accordingly it was difficult to put the light control apparatus to practical use.

Robert L. Saxe F. C. Lowell and R. I. Thompson have respectively disclosed light control windows making use of light control glasses for which the initial problems of light control windows namely the aggregation and sedimentation of light control particles changes in the optical density and the like have been compensated see for example Patent Documents 3 to 9 . In these patented inventions those initial problems are solved by using a liquid state light control suspension which includes needle shaped light control crystal particles a suspending agent for dispersing crystal particles a dispersion control agent a stabilizer and the like and preventing the sedimentation of light control particles by matching the densities of the light control particles and the suspending agent to be almost equal while preventing the aggregation of the light control particles by adding a dispersion control agent to increase the dispersibility of the light control particles.

However since even these light control glasses also have a structure in which a liquid light control suspension is encapsulated in a gap between two transparent conductive substrates as in the case of conventional light control glasses there is a problem that in the case of the manufacture of large sized products uniform encapsulation of the suspension in the gap between the two transparent conductive substrates is difficult and a swelling phenomenon in the lower part is likely to occur due to the difference in the hydraulic pressure between the upper part and the lower part of the product. Furthermore when the gap between the substrates is changed due to the external environment for example the pressure of wind the optical density is changed as a result so that the color phase becomes inhomogeneous. Further there is a problem that the sealing material in the peripheral area for holding a liquid between the transparent conductive substrates is destroyed and the light control material leaks out. In addition unevenness occurs in the response time as a result of deterioration by ultraviolet ray and a decrease in the voltage between the peripheral areas and the center of the transparent conductive substrates.

As a method of improving this there has been suggested a method of mixing a liquid light control suspension with a solution of a curable polymer resin and producing a film by using a phase separation method based on polymerization a phase separation method based on solvent volatilization a phase separation method based on temperature or the like see for example Patent Document 10 .

Furthermore in a space surrounded by the light control glasses used heretofore since the transparent conductive resin substrates used in the glasses have small surface resistivity and low radio wave transparency there is a problem that television sets mobile telephones remote control devices utilizing radio waves and the like may not function adequately.

The present invention relates to a light control film used in the windowpanes or the like for use in vehicles such as automobiles or in construction.

The light control films used in the windowpanes for use in vehicles such as automobiles trains and airplanes or use in construction have hitherto used existing transparent conductive layers having low electrical resistance which are formed by a gas phase method such as sputtering or vapor deposition and are intended for touch screen panel applications or the like. However since low electrical resistance is simultaneously accompanied by high radio wave reflectivity there is a problem that television sets mobile telephones remote control devices utilizing radio waves and the like do not function adequately when these have been brought into a car or into a room.

In order to decrease the radio wave shielding property a method of increasing the surface resistivity of the transparent conductive layer is generally known. In order to increase the surface resistivity for the ITO that is formed into a film by a gas phase method such as vapor deposition or sputtering a technique of reducing the thickness of the ITO film. However when this technique is used there is a problem that the fluctuation of the in plane surface resistivity of ITO increases so that it is difficult to achieve uniform driving of the light control films.

Furthermore there are also problems with the adhesiveness between the transparent conductive layer and the transparent resin substrate of the transparent conductive resin substrate.

The inventors of the present invention conducted a thorough investigation and as a result they found that the problems described above can be solved by adopting a configuration in which conductive particles are dispersed in a particular organic binder for the conductive layer of the transparent conductive resin substrate.

Specifically the present invention relates to a light control film comprising two of transparent conductive resin substrates each having a transparent conductive layer and a transparent resin substrate and a light control layer interposed between the two transparent conductive resin substrates to be in contact with the transparent conductive layer sides 

the light control layer containing a resin matrix and a light control suspension dispersed in the resin matrix 

wherein the transparent conductive layer contains an organic binder resin and conductive particles dispersed in the organic binder resin 

the entirety or a portion of the organic binder resin is composed of meth acrylate containing a hydroxyl group.

Furthermore the present invention relates to a light control film such as described above characterized in that the conductive particles are at least one selected from the group consisting of ITO GZO ZnO and Al doped SnO.

The present invention also relates to a light control film such as described above in which the organic binder resin is a resin obtainable by curing a polymerizable monomer or a polymerizable oligomer by heat or light.

Furthermore the present invention relates to a light control film such as described above in which the entirety or a portion of the organic binder resin is composed of a urethane acrylate containing a pentaerythritol skeleton.

The present invention also relates to a light control film such as described above in which the transparent conductive layer is formed from a transparent conductive layer having a surface resistivity value of 1000 or greater.

Furthermore the present invention relates to a light control film such as described above in which the radio wave shielding property in the frequency band of 500 MHz or higher is 5 dB or less.

The light control film of the present invention is driven stably because the in plane fluctuation of the surface resistivity of the transparent conductive layer is small and also has excellent radio wave transparency so that even inside a space surrounded by the light control film television sets mobile telephones remote control devices utilizing radio waves and the like can be made to function adequately.

Furthermore when a particular organic binder resin is used the adhesiveness between the transparent conductive layer and the transparent resin substrate of the transparent conductive resin substrate can be made satisfactory.

The disclosure of the present application relates to the subject matter described in Japanese Patent Application No. 2010 14200 filed on Jan. 26 2010 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

That is the light control film of the present invention is a light control film comprising two transparent conductive resin substrates and a light control layer interposed between the two transparent conductive resin substrate the light control layer containing a resin matrix and a light control suspension dispersed in the resin matrix characterized in that the transparent conductive resin substrate has a transparent conductive layer on a resin substrate the transparent conductive layer contains an organic binder resin and conductive particles dispersed in the organic binder resin the mass ratio of the organic binder resin and the conductive particles is 50 50 to 10 90 and the entirety or a portion of the organic binder resin is composed of meth acrylate containing a hydroxyl group.

The light control layer can be generally formed by using a light control material. The light control material according to the present invention contains as a resin matrix a polymeric medium which is cured when irradiated with an energy beam and a light control suspension in which light control particles are dispersed in a dispersion medium in a flowable state. It is preferable that the dispersion medium in the light control suspension be capable of phase separation from the polymeric medium and a cured product thereof.

When the light control material is used and a light control layer in which a light control suspension is dispersed in a resin matrix formed from a polymeric medium is interposed between two transparent conductive resin substrates each having a transparent conductive layer in which conductive particles are dispersed in an organic binder resin to be in contact with the transparent conductive layer sides the light control film of the present invention is obtained.

That is in the light control layer of the light control film of the present invention the liquid light control suspension is dispersed in the form of fine liquid droplets inside a solid resin matrix which is a cured product of the polymeric medium. The light control particles that are contained in the light control suspension are preferably rod shaped or needle shaped.

When an electric field is applied to such a light control film the light control particles having an electric dipole moment which are suspended and dispersed in the liquid droplets of the light control suspension dispersed in the resin matrix are arranged in parallel to the electric field. Thereby the liquid droplets are converted to a transparent state with respect to the incident light rays and thus the light control film transmits the incident light rays in a state in which scattering due to the viewing angle or a decrease in transparency is almost absent.

According to the present invention the surface resistivity can be increased by adopting a transparent conductive layer in which conductive particles are dispersed in a particular organic binder resin and the conventional problems of light control films that is the problems that inside a space surrounded by a light control film television sets mobile telephones remote control devices utilizing radio waves or the like do not function adequately and the use of ETC is restricted are solved since the radio wave transparency is small.

Furthermore when a particular organic binder resin is used the adhesiveness between the transparent conductive layer and the transparent resin substrate of the transparent conductive resin substrate can be made satisfactory.

According to the present invention it is preferable that the transparent conductive layer contains as constituent components conductive particles and an organic binder resin formed from a polymerizable monomer or a polymerizable oligomer. In order to increase the adhesiveness between the transparent resin substrate and the transparent conductive layer it is important that the entirety or a portion of this organic binder resin be composed of meth acrylate containing a hydroxyl group. Furthermore it is preferable that this organic binder resin the entirety of the organic binder resin containing the meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group and the like be a resin obtainable by curing a polymerizable monomer or a polymerizable oligomer with heat or light. Furthermore it is also preferable to use a urethane acrylate containing a pentaerythritol skeleton in place of or in combination with the meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group.

The mass ratio of the organic binder resin and the conductive particles is preferably in the range of 50 50 to 10 90.

Furthermore the surface resistivity of the transparent conductive layer is preferably 1000 or greater and more preferably 2000 or greater.

Furthermore the radio wave shielding property of this light control film is preferably 5 dB or less and more preferably 3 dB or less in the frequency band of 500 MHz or higher.

As the transparent conductive resin substrate used in the case of producing a light control film using the light control material according to the present invention use can be made of a transparent conductive resin substrate which has a transparent resin substrate coated with a transparent conductive layer containing an organic binder resin and conductive particles and having a combined light transmittance of the transparent resin substrate and the transparent conductive layer is 80 or greater. Meanwhile the light transmittance can be measured according to the method for measuring the total light transmittance of JIS K7105.

First the material used in the transparent conductive layer according to the present invention will be described. The transparent conductive layer has conductive particles dispersed in an organic binder resin and is formed from a coating material in which conductive particles are dispersed in an organic binder resin. The coating material is preferably a coating material in which a mixture of conductive particles and an organic binder resin formed from a polymerizable monomer or a polymerizable oligomer is dispersed in an organic solvent or the like and the transparent conductive layer is more preferably a thin film obtainable by curing a polymerizable monomer or a polymerizable oligomer including the meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group and the like that constitutes the organic binder resin in the transparent conductive layer with light or heat.

Meanwhile in order to increase the adhesiveness between the transparent resin substrate and the transparent conductive layer it is important that the entirety or a portion of this organic binder resin be composed of the meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group. Furthermore it is also preferable to use the urethane acrylate containing the pentaerythritol in place of or in combination with the meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group.

The content of the meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group or the urethane acrylate containing the pentaerythritol skeleton relative to the total amount of the organic binder resin is preferably 60 by mass or greater and more preferably 80 by mass or greater.

The conductive particles according to the present invention are preferably at least one selected from the group consisting of ITO GZO ZnO and Al doped SnO.

The transparent conductive layer has conductive particles dispersed in the organic binder resin and is characterized in that the mass ratio of the organic binder resin and the conductive particles is 50 50 to 10 90. More preferably the mass ratio of the organic binder resin and the conductive particles is 30 70 to 10 90.

When the mass ratio of the organic binder resin and the conductive particles in the transparent conductive layer is in the range described above a good balance can be achieved between high surface resistivity and high adhesiveness and thus it is preferable.

The average particle size of the conductive particles is preferably in the range of 10 nm to 500 nm from the viewpoint of transparency and is more preferably in the range of 10 nm to 200 nm. If the average particle size is less than 10 nm the dispersion of the conductive particles may be difficult.

The average particle size of the conductive particles is the particle size calculated from the specific surface area measured with a specific surface area analyzer according to the BET method using the following formula. Average particle size nm 6000 density g cm specific surface area m g 

For the conductive particles having an average particle size in the range described above commercially available products may be appropriately selected.

Among the conductive particles described above a conductive ITO powder is preferred from the viewpoint of being industrially easily available. As the conductive ITO powder used in the present invention commercially available products may be used or the conductive ITO powder can be produced by a known method comprising the steps of neutralizing an acidic solution prepared by dissolving the respective chlorides of tin and indium with an alkali co precipitating the hydroxides of tin and indium and calcining this coprecipitation product. The content of tin with respect to indium is preferably in the range of 1 to 15 by mole from the viewpoint of conductivity.

Furthermore the average particle size of the conductive ITO powder is preferably in the range of 10 nm to 500 nm from the viewpoint of transparency and is more preferably in the range of 10 nm to 200 nm. If the average particle size is less than 10 nm the dispersion of the conductive ITO powder may be difficult.

In order to increase the adhesiveness with the transparent resin substrate the material of item a described below is used for the entirety or a portion of the organic binder resin of the transparent conductive layer is used. In the present patent application it is important that the entirety or a portion of the organic binder resin be composed of meth acrylate containing a hydroxyl group in order to increase the adhesiveness between the transparent resin substrate and the transparent conductive layer. Furthermore the material of item b may also be used in place of or in combination with the material of item a and the material of item c may also be further used in combination.

Specific examples of the meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group in the molecule that is used in the formation of a transparent conductive layer include compounds represented by formula 1 to formula 8 but the present invention is not intended to be limited to these examples.

The meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group is also preferably a meth acrylate containing a hydroxyl group and a pentaerythritol skeleton. Meanwhile the meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group and the pentaerythritol skeleton is such that if the hydroxyl group is present in the meth acrylate molecule the hydroxyl groups of pentaerythritol may be all substituted but preferably the relevant compound means that at least one hydroxyl group of pentaerythritol is unsubstituted.

The pentaerythritol skeleton will be described in the paragraph for the material b such as described below.

Preferred examples of the meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group in the molecule include as shown in the formula 3 to formula 8 meth acrylates further containing a pentaerythritol skeleton.

The meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group in the molecule that is used in the present invention can be synthesized by a known method. For example in the case of an epoxy ester the compound can be obtainable by allowing an epoxy compound and meth acrylic acid to react in the presence of an esterification catalyst and a polymerization inhibitor in an inert gas.

Examples of the inert gas include nitrogen helium argon and carbon dioxide. These can be used singly or in combination.

Examples of the esterification catalyst that can be used include compounds containing tertiary amine such as triethylamine pyridine derivatives and imidazole derivatives phosphorus compound such as trimethylphosphine and triphenylphosphine and amine salts such as tetramethylammonium chloride and triethylamine. The amount of addition is in the range of 0.000001 to 20 by mass and preferably in the range of 0.001 to 1 by mass.

As the polymerization inhibitor polymerization inhibitors that are known per se such as hydroquinone and tertiary butylhydroquinone are used. The amount of use is selected in the range of 0.000001 to 0.1 by mass.

Examples of the epoxy ester include 2 hydroxy 3 phenoxypropyl acrylate trade name ARONIX M 5700 manufactured by Toagosei Co. Ltd. or trade name EPOXY ESTER M 600A manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. 2 hydroxy 3 acryloyloxypropyl methacrylate trade name LIGHT ESTER G 201P manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. and diglycidyl ether meth acrylic acid adducts such as glycerin diglycidyl ether acrylic acid adduct and propylene glycol diglycidyl ether acrylic acid adduct trade name EPOXY ESTER 80MFA glycerin diglycidyl ether acrylic acid adduct EPOXY ESTER 40EM ethylene glycol diglycidyl ether methacrylic acid adduct EPOXY ESTER 70PA propylene glycol diglycidyl ether acrylic acid adduct EPOXY ESTER 200PA tripropylene glycol diglycidyl ether acrylic acid adduct EPOXY ESTER 3002M bisphenol A propylene oxide 2 mol adduct diglycidyl ether methacrylic acid adduct EPOXY ESTER 3002A bisphenol A propylene oxide 2 mol adduct diglycidyl ether acrylic acid adduct EPOXY ESTER 3000 MK bisphenol A diglycidyl ether methacrylic acid adduct and EPOXY ESTER 3000A bisphenol A diglycidyl ether acrylic acid adduct all manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. .

Furthermore in the case of the meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group and the pentaerythritol skeleton the compound can be obtained by allowing pentaerythritol dipentaerythritol or the like to react with acrylic acid or methacrylic acid in air in the presence of an esterification catalyst and a polymerization inhibitor. As the reaction method for adding acrylic acid or methacrylic acid to pentaerythritol or dipentaerythritol known methods that are described in Japanese Patent Application JP B No. 5 86972 and JP A No. 63 68642 can be applied.

Examples of commercially available products of the meth acrylate containing the hydroxyl group in the molecule include in particular LIGHT ESTER HOP LIGHT ESTER HOA LIGHT ESTER HOP A LIGHT ESTER HOB LIGHT ESTER HO MPP LIGHT ESTER P 1M LIGHT ESTER P 2M LIGHT ESTER G 101P LIGHT ESTER G 201P LIGHT ESTER HOB A LIGHT ESTER HO HH LIGHT ACRYLATE HOA HH HOA MPL HOA MPE LIGHT ACRYLATE P 1A and LIGHT ACRYLATE PE 3A all manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. ARONIX M 215 ARONIX M 305 ARONIX M 306 ARONIX M 451 ARONIX M 403 ARONIX M 400 ARONIX M 402 ARONIX M 404 and ARONIX M 406 all manufactured by Toagosei Co. Ltd. .

Here the term pentaerythritol skeleton indicates a structure represented by the following formula a . The urethane acrylate containing the pentaerythritol skeleton specifically has a structure in which at least one hydrogen of the hydroxyl group of pentaerythritol present in the molecule of urethane acrylate is substituted by a carbamoyl group and at least one hydroxyl group is esterified with meth acrylic acid. At this time the carbamoyl group and the meth acrylic acid may also have substituents. Meanwhile it is not necessary that the hydroxyl group substituted with a carbamoyl group and the hydroxyl group esterified with meth acrylic acid be hydroxyl groups that are bonded to the same pentaerythritol skeleton represented by the following formula a .

Furthermore it is also preferable that the urethane acrylate containing the pentaerythritol skeleton according to the present invention have dipentaerythritol in which two pentaerythritols are linked through an oxygen atom as the pentaerythritol skeleton. In that case as well at least one hydrogen atom of the hydroxyl group of pentaerythritol is substituted by a carbamoyl group and at least one hydroxyl group is esterified with meth acrylic acid. At this time the carbamoyl group and the meth acrylic acid may also have substituents.

Furthermore it is more preferable that the urethane acrylate also contains IPDI 3 isocyanatomethyl 3 5 5 trimethylcyclohexyl isocyanate at the same time. Furthermore it is preferable that this urethane acrylate further contains a hydroxyl group in the molecule.

Here the IPDI 3 isocyanatomethyl 3 5 5 trimethylcyclohexyl isocyanate skeleton means a structure represented by the following formula b .

Specific examples of the urethane acrylate containing the pentaerythritol skeleton and preferably the urethane acrylate containing the pentaerythritol skeleton and the IPDI skeleton include compounds represented by the following formula 9 to formula 15 .

Meanwhile R in the formula 13 to formula 15 may all be identical with or different from each other and represent the moiety shown below. It is preferable the at least one or more be H.

The urethane acrylate containing the pentaerythritol skeleton can be synthesized by a known method. For example since urethane acrylate is generally obtainable by allowing the hydroxyl group of a polyol compound a polyisocyanate compound or the like to react with a meth acrylate containing a hydroxyl group by a known method the urethane acrylate containing the pentaerythritol skeleton can be similarly produced by for example any one of the following production method 1 to production method 4.

 Production Method 1 A method of introducing a polyol compound a polyisocyanate compound and a meth acrylate containing a pentaerythritol skeleton all together and allowing the mixture to react.

 Production Method 2 A method of allowing a polyol compound and a polyisocyanate compound to react and then allowing the resulting product to react with a meth acrylate containing a pentaerythritol skeleton.

 Production Method 3 A method of allowing a polyisocyanate compound and a meth acrylate containing a pentaerythritol skeleton to react and then allowing the resulting product to react with a polyol compound.

 Production Method 4 A method of allowing a polyisocyanate compound and a meth acrylate containing a pentaerythritol skeleton to react subsequently allowing the resulting product to react with a polyol compound and finally allowing the resulting product to react with a meth acrylate containing a pentaerythritol skeleton.

Furthermore these reactions may be carried out using a catalyst and for example tin based catalysts such as dibutyltin laurate and tertiary amine based catalysts are used.

Examples of the meth acrylate containing the pentaerythritol skeleton used in the production method 1 to production method 4 include meth acrylates containing the hydroxyl group such as pentaerythritol diacrylate pentaerythritol triacrylate dipentaerythritol pentaacrylate and dipentaerythritol tetraacrylate.

Examples of the polyisocyanate compound used in the production method 1 to production method 4 include 2 4 tolylene diisocyanate 2 6 tolylene diisocyanate 1 3 xylylene diisocyanate 1 4 xylylene diisocyanate 1 5 naphthalene diisocyanate m phenylene diisocyanate p phenylene diisocyanate 3 3 dimethyl 4 4 diphenyhlmethane diisocyanate 4 4 diphenylmethane diisocyanate 3 3 diphenylmethane diisocyanate 4 4 biphenylene diisocyanate 1 6 hexane diisocyanate isophorone diisocyanate 3 isocyanatomethyl 3 5 5 trimethylcyclohexyl isocyanate methylenebis 4 cyclohexyl isocyanate 2 2 4 trimethylhexamethylene diisocyanate 1 4 hexamethylene diisocyanate bis 2 isocyanatoethyl fumarate 6 isopropyl 1 3 phenyl diisocyanate 4 diphenylpropane diisocyanate and lysine diisocyanate.

As the urethane acrylate containing the pentaerythritol skeleton commercially available products containing the urethane acrylate containing the pentaerythritol skeleton can also be used and examples thereof include UA 306H UA 3061 UA 306T and UA 510H manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. and HA 7903 11 manufactured by Hitachi Chemical Co. Ltd. .

The urethane acrylate containing both the pentaerythritol skeleton and the IPDI skeleton can be obtainable by using isophorone diisocyanate as the polyisocyanate compound in the production method 1 to production method 4 described above.

Furthermore commercially available products can also be used and specific examples of the commercially available products containing the urethane acrylate containing both the pentaerythritol skeleton and the IPDI skeleton include the following.

Examples thereof include AY42 151 containing SiOfine particles as a filler manufactured by Dow Corning Toray Silicone Co. Ltd. UVHC3000 containing no filler manufactured by Momentive Performance Materials Inc. and UVHC7000 containing no filler manufactured by Momentive Performance Materials Inc. .

An example of the material which can be used in the combination used of the a material for forming the transparent conductive layer may be a phosphoric acid ester having one or more polymerizable groups in the molecule and preferred examples thereof include phosphoric acid monoesters or phosphoric acid diesters each having one or more polymerizable groups in the molecule. A phosphoric acid ester having one or more polymerizable groups in the molecule usually has the polymerizable group s in the ester moiety and preferably has one polymerizable group in one ester moiety. The number of polymerizable groups in the molecule is preferably one or two. Furthermore the phosphoric acid ester preferably has a poly alkylene oxide structure such as poly ethylene oxide or poly propylene oxide in the molecule.

The polymerizable group is preferably a group which is polymerized when irradiated with an energy beam and examples thereof include groups having ethylenically unsaturated double bonds such as a meth acryloyloxy group.

More specifically the material for forming the transparent conductive layer is preferably a phosphoric acid monoester or a phosphoric acid diester each having the meth acryloyloxy group in the molecule.

Examples of the phosphoric acid monoester or phosphoric acid diester each having the meth acryloyloxy group include compounds represented by formula 16 or formula 17 .

wherein Rs is each independently represent a linear or branched alkylene group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms m represents an integer of 1 or greater n represents 1 or 2 and Xs are each independently selected from the following 

l is preferably 1 to 10 and more preferably 1 to 5. m is preferably 1 to 5 and more preferably 1 to 2.

Furthermore these phosphoric acid monoesters or phosphoric acid diesters each having the meth acryloyloxy group may be used as mixtures or may also be used as mixtures with other meth acrylates and the like.

Commercially available products of the phosphoric acid monoesters or phosphoric acid diesters each having the meth acryloyloxy group include PM 21 represented by the following formula c manufactured by Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd. PHOSMER PP represented by the following formula d PHOSMER PE represented by the following formula e and PHOSMER M represented by the following formula f all manufactured by Unichemical Co. P 1M represented by the following formula g and P 2M represented by the following formula h all manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. . Meanwhile in regard to PHOSMER M and P 1M the phosphoric acid esters that are contained as main ingredients are the same compounds as shown in the following formulas.

The organic binder resin is used in combination with the material of the above item a and more preferably used in combination with the material of the above item a and the materials of the items b and c . An epoxy resin a phenoxy resin a polyvinyl butyral resin and the like can also be used. These may be used singly or as mixtures. Meanwhile the present invention is not intended to be limited to these examples. In addition the material of item b can be used instead of the material of item a .

Examples of commercially available products of these resins include a bisphenol AF copolymer phenoxy resin ZX1356 2 a phenoxy resin PKHC all manufactured by Union Carbide Corp. and a polyvinyl butyral resin 3000K manufactured by Denki Kagaku Kogyo K.K. .

As the organic binder resin a polymerizable monomer or a polymerizable oligomer can also be used in combination use of the material of the above item a preferably can used in combination with the materials of the above items b to c as well as the material of the above item a . Examples of the polymerizable monomer or the polymerizable oligomer include meth acrylates.

Specific examples of the meth acrylates as the polymerizable monomer or the polymerizable oligomer include ethylene glycol dimethacrylate diethylene glycol dimethacrylate triethylene glycol dimethacrylate tetraethylene glycol dimethacrylate nonaethylene glycol dimethacrylate tetradecaethylene glycol dimethacrylate 1 4 butanediol dimethacrylate neopentyl glycol dimethacrylate 1 6 hexanediol dimethacrylate 1 9 nonanediol dimethacrylate 1 10 decanediol dimethacrylate dimethyloltricyclodecane dimethacrylate dimethacrylates of ethylene oxide adducts of bisphenol A trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate triethylene glycol diacrylate tetraethylene glycol diacrylate nonaethylene glycol diacrylate tetradecaethylene glycol diacrylate polytetramethyelne glycol diacrylate neopentyl glycol diacrylate 3 methyl 1 5 pentanediol diacrylate 1 6 hexanediol diacrylate 2 butyl 2 ethyl 1 3 propanediol diacrylate 1 9 nonanediol diacrylate dimethyloltricyclodecane diacrylate diacrylates of ethylene oxide adducts of bisphenol A diacrylates of propylene oxide adducts of bisphenol A trimethylolpropane acrylic acid benzoic acid ester hydroxypivalic acid neopentyl glycol diacrylate trimethylolpropane triacrylate ethylene oxide modified trimethylolpropane triacrylate propylene oxide modified trimethylolpropane triacrylate pentaerythritol tetraacrylate dipentaerythritol hexaacrylate isocyanuric acid ethylene oxide modified triacrylate polypropylene glycol diacrylate polyethylene glycol diacrylate caprolactone modified tris acroxyethyl isocyanurate and phenyl glycidyl ether acrylate urethane prepolymers and these may be used singly or as mixtures. Meanwhile the present invention is not intended to be limited to these examples.

Commercially available products of these meth acrylates include LIGHT ESTER EG LIGHT ESTER 2EG LIGHT ESTER 3EG LIGHT ESTER 4EG LIGHT ESTER 9EG LIGHT ESTER 14EG LIGHT ESTER 1 4BG LIGHT ESTER NP LIGHT ESTER 1.6HX LIGHT ESTER 1 9ND LIGHT ESTER 1.10DC LIGHT ESTER DCP M LIGHT ESTER BP 2EMK LIGHT ESTER BP 4EM. LIGHT ESTER BP 6EM LIGHT ESTER TMP LIGHT ACRYLATE 3EG A LIGHT ACRYLATE 4EG A LIGHT ACRYLATE 9EG A LIGHT ACRYLATE 14EG A LIGHT ACRYLATE PTMGA 250 LIGHT ACRYLATE NP A LIGHT ACRYLATE MPD A LIGHT ACRYLATE 1 6HX A LIGHT ACRYLATE BEPG A LIGHT ACRYLATE 1 9ND A LIGHT ACRYLATE MOD A LIGHT ACRYLATE DCP A LIGHT ACRYLATE BP 4EA LIGHT ACRYLATE BP 4PA LIGHT ACRYLATE BA 134 LIGHT ACRYLATE BP 10EA LIGHT ACRYLATE HPP A LIGHT ACRYLATE TMP A LIGHT ACRYLATE TMP 3EO A LIGHT ACRYLATE TMP 6EO 3A LIGHT ACRYLATE PE 4A LIGHT ACRYLATE DPE 6A AT 600 and AH 600 all manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. ARONIX M 215 ARONIX M 220 ARONIX M 225 ARONIX M 270 ARONIX M 240 ARONIX M 310 ARONIX M 321 ARONIX M 350 ARONIX M 360 ARONIX M 370 ARONIX M 315 ARONIX M 325 and ARONIX M 327 all manufactured by Toagosei Co. Ltd. .

In the case of using a polymerizable monomer or a polymerizable oligomer in the formation of the transparent conductive layer it is preferable that the entirety of the organic binder resin used in the transparent conductive layer be cured using a thermal polymerization initiator or a photopolymerization initiator and produced into a thin film. There are no particular limitations on the thermal curing method and the photocuring method and conventional curing methods for the respective cases can be applied.

The thermal polymerization initiator used in the present invention may be any compound that can be degraded by heat thereby generate radicals and thereby initiate the polymerization of a polymerizable compound. Useful radical initiators are initiators that are already known and examples thereof include organic peroxides and azonitriles however the radical initiators are not intended to be limited to these. Examples of the organic peroxides include alkyl peroxides aryl peroxides acyl peroxides aroyl peroxides ketone peroxides peroxycarbonates and peroxycarboxylates.

Examples of the alkyl peroxides include diisopropyl peroxide ditertiary butyl peroxide ditertiary amyl peroxide tertiary butyl peroxy 2 ethylhexanoate tertiary amyl peroxy 2 ethylhexanoate and tertiary butyl hydroperoxide. Examples of the aryl peroxides include dicumyl peroxide and cumyl hydroperoxide. Examples of the acyl peroxides include dilauroyl peroxide. Examples of the aroyl peroxides include dibenzoyl peroxide. Examples of the ketone peroxides include methyl ethyl ketone peroxide and cyclohexanone peroxide.

Commercially available products of the thermal polymerization initiator include in particular PEROYL IB PERCUMYL ND PEROYL NPP PEROYL NPP PEROYL SBP PEROCTA ND PEROYL TCP PEROYL OPP PERHEXYL ND PERBUTYL ND PERBUTYL NHP PERHEXYL PV PERBUTYL PV PEROYL 355 PEROYL L PEROCTA O PEROYL SA PERHEXA 25O PERHEXYL O NYPER PMB PERBUTYL O NYPER BMT NYPER BW PERHEXA MC and PERHEXA TMH all manufactured by NOF Corp. azo compounds in particular 2 2 azobis 4 methoxy 2 4 dimethylvaleronitrile 2 2 azobis 2 4 dimethylvaleronitrile 2 2 azobis 2 methylbutyronitrile 2 2 azobis N 2 propenyl 2 methylpropionamide and or dimethyl 2 2 azobis 2 methylpropionate and dimethyl 2 2 azoisobutyrate.

The photopolymerization initiator may be any compound that can be degraded upon light irradiation thereby generate radicals and thereby initiate the polymerization of a polymerizable compound. Examples thereof include acetophenone acetophenone benzyl ketal 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone 2 2 dimethoxy 2 phenylacetophenone xanthone fluorenone benzaldehyde anthraquinone triphenylamine carbazole 3 methylacetophenone 4 chlorobenzophenone 4 4 dimethoxybenzophenone 4 4 diaminobenzophenone Michler s ketone benzoin propyl ether benzoin ethyl ether benzyl dimethyl ketal 1 4 isopropylphenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropan 1 one 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one thioxanthone diethylthioxanthone 2 isopropylthioxanthone 2 chlorothioxanthone 2 methyl 1 4 methylthio phenyl 2 morpholinopropan 1 one 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyldiphenylphosphine oxide and bis 2 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 2 4 4 trimethylpentylphosphine oxide but the photopolymerization initiator is not intended to be limited to these.

The commercially available products of the photopolymerization initiator include IRGACURE 651 IRGACURE 184 IRGACURE 500 IRGACURE 2959 IRGACURE 127 IRGACURE 754 IRGACURE 907 IRGACURE 369 IRGACURE 379 IRGACURE 379EG IRGACURE 1300 IRGACURE 819 IRGACURE 819DW IRGACURE 1800 IRGACURE 1870 IRGACURE 784 IRGACURE OXE01 IRGACURE OXE02 IRGACURE 250 IRGACURE PAG103 IRGACURE PAG108 IRGACURE PAG121 IRGACURE PAG203 DAROCURE 1173 DAROCURE MBF DAROCURE TPO DAROCURE 4265 DAROCURE EDB and DAROCURE EHA all manufactured by Ciba Japan K.K. C0014 B1225 D1640 D2375 D2963 M1245 B0103 C1105 C0292 E0063 P0211 I0678 P1410 P1377 M1209 F0362 B0139 B1275 B0481 D1621 B1267 B1164 C0136 C1485 I0591 F0021 A0061 B0050 B0221 B0079 B0222 B1019 B1015 B0942 B0869 B0083 B2380 B2381 D1801 D3358 D2248 D2238 D2253 B1231 M0792 A1028 B0486 T0157 T2041 T2042 T1188 and T1608 all manufactured by Tokyo Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. .

The surface resistivity of the transparent conductive layer is preferably 1000 or greater and more preferably 2000 or greater.

In order to adjust the surface resistivity to 1000 or greater the adjustment can be achieved by adjusting the dopant as will be described below using the above described polymers as conductive polymers.

The measurement of the surface resistivity is carried out by a four point probe method using a low resistivity meter trade name LORESTA EP manufactured by Dia Instruments Co. Ltd. . Meanwhile if the organic binder resin of the transparent conductive layer is a curable resin the measurement of the surface resistivity is carried out after curing.

As the transparent resin substrate according to the present invention for example a polymer film or the like can be used.

Examples of the polymer film include resins films such as films of polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate films of polyolefins such as polypropylene polyvinyl chloride films acrylic resin films polyether sulfone films polyallylate films and polycarbonate films. However a polyethylene terephthalate film is preferred because it has excellent transparency and is excellent in moldability adhesiveness processability and the like.

The thickness of the transparent conductive layer that is coated on the transparent resin substrate is preferably in the range of 10 nm to 5 000 nm and there are no particular limitations on the thickness of the transparent resin substrate. For example when the transparent resin substrate is a polymer film the thickness is preferably in the range of 10 m to 200 m.

The transparent conductive layer according to the present invention can be produced by applying a mixture of conductive particles and an organic binder resin on a transparent resin substrate by using a bar coater method a Meyer bar coater method an applicator method a doctor blade method a roll coater method a die coater method a comma coater method a gravure coating method a microgravure coating method a roll brush method a spray coating method an air knife coating method an impregnation method and a curtain coating method.

The conductive particles according to the present invention are preferably an ITO powder. A conductive ITO thin film containing an ITO powder as the conductive particles can also be produced by applying a mixture of an ITO powder and an organic binder resin and drying it and then subjecting the coating film thus obtained to a calender treatment or a press treatment.

When the mixture is applied the mixture may also be diluted with an appropriate solvent if necessary. In the case of using a solvent drying is necessary after the dilution is applied on the transparent resin substrate.

The solvent used in the formation of the transparent conductive layer according to the present invention may be any solvent which is capable of dissolving or dispersing a material that forms the transparent conductive layer and of being removed by drying or the like after the formation of the transparent conductive layer. Examples thereof that can be used include water isopropyl alcohol ethanol methanol 1 methoxy 2 propanol 2 methoxyethanol cyclohexanone methyl isobutyl ketone anisole methyl ethyl ketone acetone tetrahydrofuran toluene heptane cyclohexane ethyl acetate propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate diethyl diglycol dimethyl diglycol isoamyl acetate and hexyl acetate. Solvent mixtures thereof may also be used.

The light control layer according to the present invention is formed from a light control material containing a resin matrix and a light control suspension dispersed in the resin matrix. Meanwhile the resin matrix is formed from a polymeric medium and the light control suspension is a liquid in which light control particles are dispersed in a dispersion medium in a flowable state. As the polymeric medium and the dispersion medium the dispersion medium in the light control suspension use is made of a polymeric medium and a dispersion medium that make it possible that the polymeric medium and a cured product therefrom can undergo phase separation from the dispersion medium at least when these material have been formed into a film. It is preferable to use a combination of a polymeric medium and a dispersion medium that are non compatible or only partially compatible with each other.

The polymeric medium used in the present invention may be a medium which includes A a resin having a substituent containing an ethylenically unsaturated bond and B a photopolymerization initiator and is cured when irradiated with an energy beam such as ultraviolet ray visible ray or electron beam.

As the A resin having an ethylenically unsaturated bond a silicone resin also called polysiloxane resin an acrylic resin a polyester resin and the like are used with preference from the viewpoints of ease of synthesis light control performance durability and the like. It is preferable that these resins have as substituents alkyl groups such as a methyl group an ethyl group a propyl group an isopropyl group a butyl group an isobutyl group a tert butyl group an amyl group an isoamyl group a hexyl group and a cyclohexyl group and aryl groups such as a phenyl group and a naphthyl group from the viewpoints of light control performance durability and the like.

Specific examples of the silicone resin include those resins described in JP B No. 53 36515 JP B No. 57 52371 JP B No. 58 53656 JP B No. 61 17863 and the like.

The silicone resins are synthesized by for example subjecting silanol both terminated siloxane polymers such as a silanol both terminated polydimethylsiloxane a silanol both terminated polydiphenylsiloxane dimethylsiloxane copolymer and a silanol both terminated polymethylphenylsiloxane trialkylalkoxysilanes such as trimethylethoxysilane silane compounds containing an ethylenically unsaturated bond such as 3 acryloxypropyl methyldimethyldimethoxysilane and the like to a dehydrogenation condensation reaction and a dealcoholization reaction in the presence of an organotin based catalyst such as tin 2 ethylhexanoate. As the type of the silicone resin a solvent free type is used with preference. That is when a solvent is used in the synthesis of a silicone resin it is preferable to remove the solvent after the synthesis reaction.

In regard to the feed blending of the various raw materials for condensation at the time of production of the silicone resins the amount of the silane compound containing the ethylenically unsaturated bond such as 3 acryloxypropyl methyldimethoxysilane is preferably set to 2.0 to 8.0 by mass and more preferably to 2.3 to 6.9 by mass relative to the total amount of the raw materials for condensation of the structural units of the polysiloxane resin total amount of the raw material siloxane and silane compounds . If the amount of the silane compound containing the ethylenically unsaturated bond is less than 2.0 by mass the ethylenically unsaturated bond concentration of the resin that is finally obtained tends to be excessively lower than the desired concentration. If the amount is greater than 8.0 by mass the ethylenically unsaturated bond concentration of the resulting resin tends to be excessively higher than the desired concentration.

The acrylic resin can be obtainable by for example copolymerizing a main chain forming monomer such as a meth acrylic acid alkyl ester a meth acrylic acid aryl ester benzyl meth acrylate or styrene and a monomer containing a functional group for introducing an ethylenically unsaturated bond such as meth acrylic acid hydroxyethyl meth acrylate isocyanatoethyl meth acrylate or glycidyl meth acrylate to synthesize a prepolymer and then performing an addition reaction of a monomer such as glycidyl meth acrylate isocyanatoethyl meth acrylate hydroxyethyl meth acrylate or meth acrylate to the prepolymer so that the monomer can react with the functional groups of the prepolymer.

There are no particular limitations on the polyester resin and examples thereof include those polymers that can be easily produced by known methods.

The weight average molecular weight of this A resin having an ethylenically unsaturated bond as measured by gel permeation chromatography and calculated relative to polystyrene standards is preferably in the range of 35 000 to 60 000 more preferably in the range of 37 000 to 58 000 and even more preferably in the range of 40 000 to 55 000.

The amount of the structural unit containing an ethylenically unsaturated bond of the resin having an ethylenically unsaturated bond is preferably 1.3 to 5.0 by mass and more preferably 1.5 to 4.5 by mass relative to the total amount of structural units.

The ethylenically unsaturated bond concentration of the A resin having an ethylenically unsaturated bond can be determined from the integrated intensity ratio of hydrogen obtained by NMR. Furthermore when the conversion ratio of the feed raw materials to the resin is known the ethylenically unsaturated bond concentration can also be determined by calculation.

The B photopolymerization initiator used in the polymeric medium may be any agent that can be degraded upon light irradiation thereby generate radicals and thereby initiate the polymerization of a polymerizable compound. Examples thereof include but are not limited to acetophenone acetophenone benzyl ketal 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone 2 2 dimethoxy 2 phenylacetophenone xanthone fluorenone benzaldehyde anthraquinone triphenylamine carbazole 3 methylacetophenone 4 chlorobenzophenone 4 4 dimethoxybenzophenone 4 4 diaminobenzophenone Michler s ketone benzoin propyl ether benzoin ethyl ether benzyl dimethyl ketal 1 4 isopropylophenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropan 1 one 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one thioxanthone diethylthioxanthone 2 isopropylthioxanthone 2 chlorothioxanthone 2 methyl 1 4 methylthio phenyl 2 morpholinopropan 1 one 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyldiphenylphosphine oxide and bis 2 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 2 4 4 trimethylpentylphosphine oxide.

Commercially available products of the photopolymerization initiator include IRGACURE 651 IRGACURE 184 IRGACURE 500 IRGACURE 2959 IRGACURE 127 IRGACURE 754 IRGACURE 907 IRGACURE 369 IRGACURE 379 IRGACURE 379EG IRGACURE 1300 IRGACURE 819 IRGACURE 819DW IRGACURE 1800 IRGACURE 1870 IRGACURE 784 IRGACURE OXE01 IRGACURE OXE02 IRGACURE 250 IRGACURE PAG103 IRGACURE PAG108 IRGACURE PAG121 IRGACURE PAG203 DAROCUR 1173 DAROCUR MBF DAROCUR TPO DAROCUR 4265 DAROCUR EDB and DAROCUR EHA all manufactured by Ciba Japan K.K. C0014 B1225 D1640 D2375 D2963 M1245 B0103 C1105 C0292 E0063 P0211 I0678 P1410 P1377 M1209 F0362 B0139 B1275 B0481 D1621 B1267 B1164 C0136 C1485 I0591 F0021 A0061 B0050 B0221 B0079 B0222 B1019 B1015 B0942 B0869 B0083 B2380 B2381 D1801 D3358 D2248 D2238 D2253 B1231 M0792 A1028 B0486 T0157 T2041 T2042 T1188 and T1608 all manufactured by Tokyo Chemical Industry Co. Ltd. .

The amount of use of the B photopolymerization initiator is preferably in the range of 0.1 to parts by mass and more preferably 0.2 to 10 parts by mass relative to 100 parts by mass of the A resin.

Furthermore in addition to the A resin having a substituent containing an ethylenically unsaturated bond an organic solvent soluble resin or a thermoplastic resin for example a polyacrylic acid a polymethacrylic acid or the like each of which has a weight average molecular weight of 1 000 to 100 000 as measured by gel permeation chromatography and calculated relative to polystyrene standards can also be used in combination as a constituent material of the polymeric medium.

Further additives such as a coloration preventing agent such as dibutyltin dilaurate may also be added to the polymeric medium as necessary. In addition the polymeric medium may also include a solvent and examples of the solvent that can be used include tetrahydrofuran toluene heptane cyclohexane ethyl acetate ethanol methanol isoamyl acetate and hexyl acetate.

As the dispersion medium in the light control suspension use is made of a medium which may be phase separated from the polymeric medium and the resin matrix which is a cured product of the polymeric medium. Preferably use is made of a liquid copolymer which plays the role of dispersing light control particles in a flowable state selectively adheres and coats the light control particles operates at the time of phase separation from the polymeric medium so that the light control particles move to the liquid droplet phase that has been phase separated has no electrical conductivity has no affinity with the polymeric medium and has a refractive index that is close to that of the resin matrix which is formed from the polymeric medium when a light control film is formed.

As the liquid copolymer for example a meth acrylic acid ester oligomer having a fluoro group and or a hydroxyl group is preferred and a meth acrylic acid ester oligomer having a fluoro group and a hydroxyl group is more preferred. When such a copolymer is used a monomer unit having any one of a fluoro group and a hydroxyl group has affinity with the light control particles and the other monomer unit works so as to stably maintain the light control suspension in the form of liquid droplets in the polymeric medium. Then the light control particles may be easily dispersed in the light control suspension and the light control particles may be easily led into the liquid droplets to be phase separated at the time of phase separation.

Examples of such a meth acrylic acid ester oligomer having a fluoro group and or a hydroxyl group include a 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl methacrylate butyl acrylate 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate copolymer a 3 5 5 trimethylhexyl acrylate 2 hydroxypropyl acrylate fumaric acid copolymer a butyl acrylate 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate copolymer a 2 2 3 3 tetrafluoropropyl acrylate butyl acrylate 2 hydroxyethyl acylate copolymer a 1H 1H 5H octafluoropentyl acrylate butyl acrylate 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate copolymer a 1H 1H 2H 2H heptadecafluorodecyl acrylate butyl acrylate 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate copolymer a 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl methacrylate butyl acrylate 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate copolymer a 2 2 3 3 tetrafluoropropyl methacrylate butyl acrylate 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate copolymer a 1H 1H 5H octafluoropentyl methacrylate butyl acrylate 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate copolymer a 1H 1H 2H 2H heptadecafluorodecyl methacrylate butyl acrylate 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate copolymer a butyl methacrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate copolymer a hexyl methacrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate copolymer an octyl methacrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate copolymer a decyl methacrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate copolymer an undecyl methacrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate copolymer a dodecyl methacrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate copolymer a tridecyl methacrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate copolymer a tetradecyl methacrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate copolymer a hexadecyl methacrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate copolymer and an octadecyl methacrylate 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate copolymer.

Such a meth acrylic acid ester oligomer preferably has a weight average molecular weight within the range of 1 000 to 20 000 and more preferably within the range of 2 000 to 10 000 as measured by gel permeation chromatography and calculated relative to polystyrene standards.

The amount of use of a fluoro group containing monomer that is used as a raw material of these meth acrylic acid ester oligomers is preferably 6 to 12 by mole of the total amount of the raw material monomers and a more effective amount of use is 7 to 8 by mole. If the amount of use of the fluoro group containing monomer is greater than 12 by mole the refractive index tends to increase and the light transmittance tends to decrease.

Furthermore the amount of use of a hydroxyl group containing monomer that is used as a raw material of these meth acrylic acid ester oligomers is preferably 0.5 to 22.0 by mole and a more effective amount of use is 1 to 8 by mole. If the amount of use of the hydroxyl group containing monomer is greater than 22.0 by mole the refractive index tends to increase and the light transmission properties tend to decrease.

The light control suspension used in the present invention is a suspension in which light control particles are dispersed in a dispersion medium in a flowable manner. As the light control particles for example use may be made with preference of needle shaped crystallites of a polyiodide produced by allowing one substance selected from the group consisting of pyrazine 2 3 dicarboxylic acid dihydrate pyrazine 2 5 dicarboxylic acid dihydrate and pyridine 2 5 dicarboxylic acid monohydrate which are all precursors of light control particles to react with iodine and an iodide in the presence of a polymer dispersant which has no affinity with the polymeric medium or the resin component in the polymeric medium that is the A resin having a substituent having an ethylenically unsaturated bond and can increase the dispersibility of the light control particles. Examples of the polymer dispersant that can be used include nitrocellulose. Examples of the iodide include calcium iodide. Examples of the polyiodide that is obtainable as such include polymers represented by the following general formulas CaI CHNO .XHO X 1 to 2 and CaI CHNO HO 3 to 71 to 21 to 3 . These polyiodides are preferably in the form of needle shaped crystals.

Furthermore as the light control particles used in the light control suspension for light control film those light control particles disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 2 041 138 E. H. Land U.S. Pat. No. 2 306 108 Land et al. U.S. Pat. No. 2 375 963 Thomas U.S. Pat. No. 4 270 841 R. L. Saxe and GB Patent No. 433 455 can also be used. The polyiodide crystals that are known by these patents are each produced by selecting one from pyrazinecarboxylic acids and pyridinecarboxylic acids and causing the selected acid to react with iodine chlorine or bromine so as to obtain a polyhalide such as polyiodide polychloride or polybromide. These polyhalides are complex compounds obtainable by allowing halogen atoms to react with inorganic or organic substances and the details of the production method thereof are disclosed in for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 422 963 issued to Saxe.

As disclosed by Saxe in the process for synthesizing light control particles it is preferable to use a polymer substance such as nitrocellulose as a polymer dispersant as described above in order to form light control particles having a uniform size and to enhance the dispersibility of the light control particles in a particular dispersion medium. However if nitrocellulose is used crystals coated with nitrocellulose are obtained and when these crystals are used as light control particles the light control particles do not suspend inside the liquid droplets that are separated at the time of phase separation and may remain in the resin matrix. In order to prevent this it is preferable to use a silicone resin as the A resin having a substituent containing an ethylenically unsaturated bond of the polymeric medium. When a silicone resin is used the light control particles are easily dispersed and suspended in the fine liquid droplets formed by phase separation at the time of production of the light control film and as a result a superior modulation ability can be obtained.

According to the present invention the particle size of the light control particles is preferably the size shown below from the viewpoint of the relation between the response time to the applied voltage when a light control film is produced and the aggregation and precipitation of the light control particles in the light control suspension.

The major axis of the light control particles is preferably in the range of 225 nm to 625 nm more preferably in the range of 250 nm to 550 nm and even more preferably in the range of 300 nm to 500 nm.

The ratio of the major axis to the minor axis of the light control particles that is the aspect ratio is preferably 3 to 8 more preferably 3.3 to 7 and even more preferably 3.6 to 6.

The major axis and the minor axis of the light control particles according to the present invention can be determined by picking an image of the light control particles with an electron microscope such as a scanning microscope or a transmission electron microscope extracting any fifty light control particles from the image picked up and calculating the major axis and the minor axis of the various light control particles as an average value. Here the major axis is defined as the length of the longest part in a light control particle projected in a two dimensional field of view based on the image picked up. Furthermore the minor axis is defined as the length of the longest that is perpendicular to the major axis.

Furthermore as the method of evaluating the particle size of the light control particles according to the present invention a particle size distribution meter which uses the principle of photon correlation spectrometry or dynamic light scattering can be used. In this method the size or morphology of a particle is not directly measured but a particle is assumed to be spherical and the corresponding diameter is evaluated so that a value different from the results of SEM observation is obtained. Particularly when the corresponding diameter outputted as Z average using ZETASIZER NANO series manufactured by Sysmex Corp. is designated as the particle size the particle size of the light control particle hereinafter referred to as particle size that can be determined by particle size distribution analysis is preferably in the range of 135 nm to 220 nm more preferably in the range of 140 nm to 210 nm and even more preferably in the range of 145 nm to 205 nm n.

This Z average value is known to show good relations with the measured values of a different particle size distribution meter which is based on for example photon correlation spectrometry or dynamic light scattering specifically the major axis and the minor axis of the light control particles measured with an electron microscope such as the transmission electron microscope described above. Thus the Z average value is appropriate as an index for evaluating the particle size.

It is preferable that the light control suspension used in the present invention contain light control particles in an amount of 1 to 15 by mass and more preferably 2 to 10 by mass relative to the total mass of the light control suspension. Furthermore it is preferable that the light control suspension contain a dispersion medium in an amount of 30 to 99 by mass and more preferably 50 to 96 by mass relative to the total mass of the light control suspension.

Furthermore it is preferable that the light control material contain the light control suspension in an amount of 1 to 100 parts by mass more preferably 4 to 70 parts by mass even more preferably 6 to 60 parts by mass and particularly preferably 8 to 50 parts by mass relative to 100 parts by mass of the polymeric medium.

It is preferable that the refractive index of the polymeric medium and the refractive index of the dispersion medium according to the present invention be close to each other. Specifically the difference in the refractive index between the polymeric medium and the dispersion medium according to the present invention is preferably 0.005 or less and more preferably 0.003 or less.

The light control material contains the light control suspension in an amount of usually 1 to 100 parts by mass preferably 6 to 70 parts by mass and more preferably 6 to 60 parts by mass relative to 100 parts by mass of the polymeric medium.

The light control film of the present invention can be formed by using a light control material. The light control material is composed of a resin matrix formed from a polymeric medium and a light control suspension dispersed in the resin matrix and forms a light control layer. The light control layer is interposed between two of transparent conductive resin substrates each having a transparent conductive layer containing an organic binder resin and a conductive polymer to be in contact with the transparent conductive layer sides.

In order to obtain a light control film first a liquid light control suspension is homogeneously mixed with a polymeric medium and thus a light control material formed from a liquid mixture in which the light control suspension is dispersed in the form of liquid droplets in the polymeric medium is obtained.

Specifically the process is as follows. A liquid in which light control particles are dispersed in a solvent and the dispersion medium of the light control suspension are mixed and the solvent is distilled off with a rotary evaporator or the like to prepare a light control suspension. As the solvent for dispersing the light control particles isoamyl acetate or the like is used.

Subsequently the light control suspension and the polymeric medium are mixed and thus a liquid mixture light control material in which the light control suspension is dispersed in the form of liquid droplets in the polymeric medium is obtained.

This light control material is applied on the transparent conductive layer of the transparent conductive resin substrate to a certain thickness and if necessary the solvent contained in the light control material is removed by drying. Subsequently the light control material is irradiated with ultraviolet ray using a high pressure mercury lamp or the like and thus the polymeric medium is cured. As a result a light control layer in which the light control suspension is dispersed in the form of liquid droplets in a resin matrix formed from the cured polymeric medium is completed. The light transmittance of the light control layer can be controlled by varying the mixing ratio between the polymeric medium and the light control suspension to various values.

The other transparent conductive resin substrate is adhered onto the light control layer formed as such so that the light control layer is in contact with the transparent conductive layer in which conductive particles are dispersed in an organic binder resin and thereby a light control film is obtained. Alternatively it is still acceptable to obtain the light control film by applying this light control material on the transparent conductive layer of the transparent conductive resin substrate to a certain thickness if necessary removing the solvent in the light control material by drying subsequently laminating the resulting coated substrate with the other transparent conductive resin substrate having a transparent conductive layer and then irradiating the laminate with ultraviolet ray to cure the polymeric medium.

It is also acceptable to obtain the light control film by forming a light control layer on both sides of two transparent conductive resin substrates and then laminating those substrates such that the light control layers are adhered to each other. The thickness of the light control layer is preferably in the range of 5 m to 1 000 m and more preferably in the range of 20 m to 100 m.

For the application of the light control material that forms the light control layer for example a known coating means such as a bar coater an applicator a doctor blade a roll coater a die coater or a comma coater can be used. When the light control material is applied if necessary the light control material may be diluted with an appropriate solvent. If a solvent has been used it is necessary to dry the solvent after the light control material is applied on the transparent conductive resin substrate.

As the solvent to be used in the application of the light control material tetrahydrofuran toluene heptane cyclohexane ethyl acetate ethanol methanol isoamyl acetate hexyl acetate and the like can be used.

In order to form a light control layer in which a liquid light control suspension is dispersed in the form of fine liquid droplets in a solid resin matrix a method comprising the steps of mixing the light control material with a homogenizer an ultrasonic homogenizer or the like and of finely dispersing the light control suspension in the polymeric medium a phase separation method based on the polymerization of the resin component in the polymeric medium a phase separation method based on the volatilization of the solvent included in the light control material a phase separation method based on temperature or the like can be used.

The size of the liquid droplets average liquid droplet size of the light control suspension dispersed in the resin matrix is usually in the range of 0.5 m to 100 m preferably in the range of 0.5 m to 20 m and more preferably in the range of 1 m to 5 m. The size of the liquid droplets can be determined by the concentrations of the various components constituting the light control suspension the viscosities of the light control suspension and the polymeric medium the compatibility of the dispersion medium in the light control suspension to the polymeric medium and the like.

The average liquid droplet size can be determined by for example picking up an image such as a photograph from one plane direction of the light control film using SEM measuring the sizes of plural liquid droplets that are arbitrarily selected and calculating the average value. Furthermore the average liquid droplet size can also be determined by inputting the image of the field of view of the light control film obtained by an optical microscope as digital data into a computer and calculating the size using an image processing integration software.

The radio wave shielding property of this light control film is preferably 5 dB or less and more preferably 3 dB or less in the frequency region of 500 MHz or higher. This can be achieved by adjusting the surface resistivity of the transparent conductive layer to 1000 or greater.

The radio wave shielding property is measured at the Kansai Electronic Industry Development Center using a test specimen having a size of 200 mm 200 mm and a thickness of 340 m by the KEC method.

According to the method described above there is provided a light control film for which the light transmittance can be arbitrarily controlled by the formation of an electric field. This light control film maintains a vividly colored state without any scattering of light even in the case where an electric field is not formed and when an electric field is formed the light control film is converted to a transparent state. This ability exhibits reversible repetitive characteristics of 200 000 times or more. In order to enhance the light transmittance in the transparent state and to enhance the degree of vividness in the colored state it is preferable to match the refractive index of the liquid light control suspension and the refractive index of the resin matrix.

For the power supply used to operate the light control film an alternating current voltage in the range of 10 to 100 volts effective value at a frequency in the range of 30 Hz to 500 kHz may be used.

For the light control film of the present invention the response time to the electric field can be adjusted to within 1 to 50 seconds at the time of decoloration and to within 1 to 100 seconds at the time of coloration. Furthermore in regard to the ultraviolet durability when the light control film is subjected to an ultraviolet ray irradiation test using an ultraviolet ray at 750 W the light control film exhibits stable variable characteristics even after a lapse of 250 hours and even when the light control film is left to stand for a long time at 50 C. to 90 C. the light control film can maintain the initial variable characteristics.

In the production of a light control film using liquid crystals according to a prior art technology when a method involving an emulsion using water is used the liquid crystals frequently react with moisture and lose the light control characteristics and therefore there is a problem in that it is difficult to produce films having the same characteristics. According to the present invention since liquid crystals are not used but a liquid light control suspension in which light control particles are dispersed in the light control suspension is used unlike those light control films utilizing liquid crystals the light control film of the present invention does not cause scattering of light even when an electric field is not applied has excellent vividness and exhibits a colored state without any limitation in the viewing angle. Furthermore the degree of light variability can be arbitrarily controlled by regulating the content of the light control particles the form of liquid droplets or the layer thickness or by regulating the intensity of the electric field. Further since the light control film of the present invention does not use liquid crystals problems such as color tone change caused by exposure to ultraviolet ray a decrease in the variability and the difference in the response time accompanied by a decrease in voltage occurring between the peripheral area and the center of the transparent conductive substrate which is characteristics to large sized products are also solved.

When an electric field is not applied to the light control film according to the present invention a vividly colored state is exhibited due to the light absorption by the light control particles and a dichroic effect as a result of the Brownian motion of the light control particles in the light control suspension. However when an electric field is applied the light control particles in the liquid droplets or in connected bodies of the liquid droplets are arranged in parallel to the electric field and the film is converted to a transparent state.

Furthermore since the light control film is in the form of film the problems of those light control glasses based on the prior art technology in which liquid light control suspension is directly used that is the difficulty of injection of the liquid suspension between two transparent conductive resin substrates the phenomenon of swelling of the lower part due to the difference in hydraulic pressure between the upper part and the lower part of a product localized changes in color phase due to the change in the gap between the substrates caused by the external environment such as the pressure of wind and the leakage of the light control material caused by destruction of the sealing material between the transparent conductive substrates are solved.

Furthermore in the case of light control windows based on the prior art technology using liquid crystals the liquid crystals are prone to deteriorate due to ultraviolet ray and because of the thermal characteristics of nematic liquid crystals the range of the use temperature is also narrow. Further in terms of the optical characteristics those light control windows have a problem in that when an electric field is not applied the windows exhibit a semi transparent state in milk white color due to light scattering and even in the case where an electric field is applied the windows do not become completely clear while an opacified state still remains. Therefore in such light control windows the display function based on the blocking and transmission of light that is utilized as the operating principle in conventional liquid crystal display elements is impossible. However when the light control film according to the present invention is used such problems can be solved.

The light control film of the present invention has excellent radio wave transparency so that even in a space surrounded with the light control film television sets mobile telephones remote control devices utilizing radio waves ETC and the like can be made to function adequately.

The light control film of the present invention can be suitably used in applications such as for example indoor or outdoor partitioning windowpanes skylight windows for buildings various flat display elements used in electronic industry and imaging equipment substitutes for various gauge boards and existing liquid crystal display elements light shutters various indoor and outdoor advertisement and information display boards windowpanes for airplane railway vehicles ships windowpanes rearview mirrors sunroofs for automobiles spectacles sunglasses and sun visors.

In regard to the method of application the light control film of the present invention can be directly used but depending on the use for example the light control film of the present invention may be used in the state of being interposed between two substrates or may be used in the state of being attached to one surface of the substrate. As the substrate for example glass plates or polymer films similar ones for the transparent resin substrates described above can be used.

The structure and operation of the light control film according to the present invention may be further described in more detail by way of the attached drawings as follows.

Hereinafter the present invention will be more specifically described by way of Examples and Comparative Examples of the present invention but the present invention is not intended to be limited to these Examples.

A 8.5 mass isopentyl acetate solution of iodine was prepared from iodine JIS reagent special grade manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. and isopentyl acetate reagent special grade manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. and a 20.0 mass isopentyl acetate solution of cellulose nitrate was prepared from cellulose nitrate LIG trade name manufactured by Bergerak NC and isopentyl acetate. Calcium iodide hydrate chemical grade manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. was dried by heating to be dehydrated and the resulting product was dissolved in isopentyl acetate. Thus a 20.9 mass calcium iodide solution was prepared. In a 300 ml four necked flask equipped with a stirrer and a cooling tube 65.6 g of the iodine solution and 82.93 g of the cellulose nitrate solution were introduced and the flask was heated at a bath temperature in the range of 35 C. to 40 C. When the temperature of the flask content had reached to the range of 35 C. to 40 C. 7.41 g of dehydrated methanol reagent special grade manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. and 0.525 g of purified water were added to the flask and the mixture was stirred. 15.6 g of the calcium iodide solution and then 3.70 g of pyrazine 2 5 dicarboxylic acid manufactured by Hitachi Chemical Techno Service Co. Ltd. were added to the flask. The flask content was stirred for 4 hours at a bath temperature in the range of 42 C. to 44 C. and then the flask was left to cool naturally.

For the light control particles thus obtained the particle size that could be determined by a particle size distribution analysis was 139 nm the major axis determined by SEM observation was 259 nm and the aspect ratio was 4.1. Furthermore the synthesis liquid thus obtained was centrifuged for 5 hours at 9260G and then the liquid was decanted to remove the supernatant. To the precipitate remaining at the bottom isopentyl acetate in an amount of five times the mass of this precipitate was added and the precipitate was dispersed by ultrasonication. The total mass of the liquid was measured. One gram of this dispersion liquid was weighed on a metal plate and was dried for one hour at 120 C. Subsequently the mass was weighed again and the non volatile content ratio in percentage was determined. The total non volatile content that is the precipitation yield determined from the non volatile content ratio and the total mass of liquid was 4.15 g.

45.5 g of the light control particles obtained in the previously described Production Example for light control particles were added to 50 g of a copolymer of a butyl acrylate Wako special grade manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl methacrylate industrial grade manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate Wako first grade manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. molar ratio of monomers 18 1.5 0.5 weight average molecular weight 2 000 and refractive index 1.4719 and the mixture was mixed for 30 minutes with a stirrer. Subsequently isoamyl acetate was removed under reduced pressure using a rotary evaporator in a vacuum at 133 Pa and 80 C. for 3 hours. Thus a stable liquid light control suspension having no occurrence of sedimentation and aggregation of the light control particles was prepared.

In a four necked flask equipped with a Dean Starck trap a cooling tube a stirrer and a heating apparatus 15.0 g of 3 acryloxypropyl methyldimethoxysilane trade name KBM 5102 manufactured by Shin Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. 1.9 g of distilled water 0.04 g of acetic acid manufactured by Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. and 8.9 g of a mixed solvent of ethanol methanol 9 1 by mass were introduced and the mixture was heated to 65 C. and was allowed to react for 5 hours. The reaction solution was cooled to 40 C. or lower and then the pressure was decreased to 100 Pa. The temperature was raised to 70 C. and a solvent removal process was carried out for 2 hours. Thereafter the residue was cooled to room temperature and thus 14.0 g of a compound in which a portion of the methoxy groups of the alkoxysilane was converted to silanol groups was obtained. Furthermore the conversion ratio to silanol was 54.5 .

The conversion ratio of an alkoxysilane to silanol can be determined from the intensity A of a peak originating from a hydroxyl group near 3435 cm and the intensity B of a peak originating from an alkoxy group near 2835 cm obtained in an infrared spectroscopic analysis by the formula conversion ratio A A B 100. According to the infrared spectroscopic analysis after the conversion from dimethoxysilane to silanol it was found that Abs 0.250 for A and Abs 0.211 for B and thus the conversion ratio was calculated to be 54.5 .

In a four necked flask equipped with a Dean Starck trap a cooling tube a stirrer and a heating apparatus 48.0 g of a silanol both terminated polydimethylsiloxane trade name X 21 3114 manufactured by Shin Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. 170.0 g of a silanol both terminated polymethylphenylsiloxane trade name X 21 3193B manufactured by Shin Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. 9.0 g of the product obtained by converting the methoxy groups of KBM 5102 to silanol groups and 0.01 g of tin bis 2 ethylhexanoate trade name KCS 405T manufactured by Johoku Chemical Co. Ltd. were introduced and the mixture was heated to reflux for 5 hours at 100 C. in heptane to carry out a reaction. The temperature was cooled to 50 C. and 109.0 g of trimethylethoxysilane trade name KBM 31 manufactured by Shin Etsu Chemical Co. Ltd. was added thereto. The resulting mixture was heated to reflux again for 2 hours at 85 C. and thus an end capping reaction was carried out. Subsequently the temperature was cooled to 75 C. and 0.01 g 100 parts by mass relative to 100 parts by mass of the dehydration condensation catalyst tin bis 2 ethylhexanoate of diethyl phosphate another name ethyl acid phosphate trade name JP 502 manufactured by Johoku Chemical Co. Ltd. was added to the reaction liquid. The mixture was stirred for 20 minutes and then was cooled to 30 C. Subsequently 210 g of methanol and 90 g of ethanol were added to the mixture and the resulting mixture was stirred for minutes. The mixture was left to still stand for 12 hours and then the alcohol layer was removed. The pressure was reduced to 100 Pa the temperature was raised to 115 C. and solvent removal was carried out for 5 hours. Thus 148.8 g of a polysiloxane resin refractive index 1.4745 having a weight average molecular weight of 46 700 and a viscosity of 16 000 was obtained.

At this time the conversion ratio of the methoxy groups of KBM 5102 relative to the total amount of the condensation raw materials for the structural unit of the polysiloxane resin total amount of the raw material siloxane and the silane compound to silanol groups was 2.7 by mass.

Further according to the integral ratio of hydrogen of NMR the amount of structural unit of 3 acryloxypropylmethylsiloxane of this resin ethylenically unsaturated bond concentration was 1.9 by mass. Meanwhile the ethylenically unsaturated bond concentration was measured by a method such as described below.

The amount of structural unit of 3 acryloxypropylmethylsiloxane was calculated from the integral ratio of hydrogen of NMR the integral value at near 6 ppm for the hydrogen of the ethylenically unsaturated bond the integral value at near 7.5 ppm for the hydrogen of the phenyl group and the integral value at near 0.1 ppm for the hydrogen of the methyl group were used . The solvent used for the measurement was CDCl. In regard to the resin produced as described above the ratio of H originating from the methyl group of diphenylsiloxane H originating from the phenyl group of dimethylsiloxane H bonded to the vinyl group of 3 acryloxypropylmethylsiloxane calculated from the integral ratios of hydrogen of NMR was 10.00 27.89 0.61. Since the numbers of hydrogen atoms contained in each structural unit are 10 for diphenylsiloxane 6 for dimethylsiloxane and 3 for hydrogen atoms bonded to the vinyl group of 3 acryloxypropylmethylsiloxane the amount of structural unit of 3 acryloxypropylmethylsiloxane ethylenically unsaturated bond concentration relative to the total amount was calculated to be 1.9 by mass.

2.5 g of the light control suspension obtained in the Preparation Example for light control suspension was added to 10 g of the energy beam curable silicone resin obtained in the Production Example for energy beam curable silicone resin 0.2 g of bis 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyl phenylphosphine oxide manufactured by Ciba Specialty Chemicals Corp. as a photopolymerization initiator and 0.3 g of dibutyltin dilaurate as a coloration preventing agent. The mixture was mechanically mixed for one minute and thus a light control material was produced.

Meanwhile for the transparent conductive layer an ITO powder manufactured by Dowa Holdings Co. Ltd. average particle size 30 nm and a mixture of pentaerythritol triacrylate and pentaerythritol tetraacrylate trade name ARONIX M 305 manufactured by Toagosei Co. Ltd. were mixed at proportions of 75 by mass and 25 by mass respectively and this mixture was dispersed in a solvent mixture of methyl ethyl ketone cyclohexanone 1 1. The dispersion was applied on a PET film COSMOSHINE A4100 manufactured by Toyobo Co. Ltd. thickness 125 m as a transparent resin substrate with a bar coater and the dispersion was dried under the conditions of 50 C. 30 s 60 C. 30 s and 70 C. 1 min. Subsequently the dispersion was photocured by UV irradiation at 1000 mJ cm metal halide lamp to form a transparent conductive layer and thus a transparent conductive resin substrate was obtained. At this time a photopolymerization initiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone was added in an amount of 3 by mass based on ARONIX M 305. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer after curing was 1.8 m.

On the transparent conductive layer of the transparent conductive resin substrate having the transparent conductive layer formed the light control material obtained as described above was applied over the entire surface. Subsequently a transparent conductive resin substrate having a transparent conductive layer formed thereon in the same manner as described above was laminated and adhered thereon such that the transparent conductive layer faced the coating layer of the light control material. Ultraviolet ray at 3000 mJ cmwas irradiated using a metal halide lamp through the PET film side of the laminated transparent conductive resin substrate. Thus a light control film having a thickness of 340 m and having a film like light control layer having a thickness of 90 m in which a light control suspension was dispersed and was formed as spherical liquid droplets in an ultraviolet cured resin matrix and which is interposed between transparent conductive resin substrates was produced.

Next the light control layer was removed from an edge of this light control film and thus the transparent conductive layer at the edge was exposed so as to allow the passage of electricity for voltage application see .

The size of the liquid droplets average liquid droplet size of the light control suspension in the light control film was 3 man on the average. The light transmittance of the light control film was 1.0 when an alternating current voltage was not applied no application . Furthermore the light transmittance of the light control film when an alternating current voltage of 100 V effective value at 50 Hz was applied was 48 and the ratio of light transmittances at the time of application of electric field and at the time of non application of electric field was as large as 48 which was satisfactory.

The edge of the light control film the area where the light control layer was removed and the transparent conductive layer was exposed was observed by visual inspection and the curvature of the transparent conductive resin substrate directed toward the center in the thickness direction of the light control film was very small .

Meanwhile evaluations of the light transmittance of the light control film the radio wave shielding property transparency at a frequency in the range of 100 kHz to 18 GHz the surface resistivity the thickness of the conductive layer the adhesive strength of the light control layer and the conductive layer and the peeling mode were carried out as follows.

The Y value measured using a light source A and at a viewing angle of 2 degrees using a spectroscopic colorimeter SZ 90 manufactured by Nippon Denshoku Industries Co. Ltd. was designated as the light transmittance. Meanwhile the light transmittances at the time of application of electric field and at the time of non application of electric field were measured.

The radio wave transparency was measured at the Kansai Electronic Industry Development Center using a test specimen having a size of 200 mm 200 mm and a thickness of 340 m the KEC method.

The radio wave transparency was measured at Keycom Corp. using a test specimen having a size of 350 mm 350 mm and a thickness of 340 m and using Redorm for radar by a cover transmission attenuation measurement system.

The surface resistivity was measured with a four point probe using a low resistivity meter LORESTA EP manufactured by Dia instruments Co. Ltd. .

 Method for Measuring Adhesive Strength Between Light Control Layer and Transparent Conductive Layer 

The measurement of the adhesive strength was carried out using a small sized tabletop testing machine precision universal testing machine EZ S manufactured by Shimadzu Corp. by peeling off the transparent conductive resin substrate from the light control layer of the light control film by pulling at 90 peel under a load of 50 N at a tensile speed of 50 mm min. Thus the adhesive strength was measured.

The thickness of the transparent conductive layer was measured using an instantaneous spectrophotometer F 20 manufactured by Filmetrics Japan Inc. .

For the light control film obtained after the measurement of adhesive strength from which the transparent conductive resin substrate was peeled off the manner of peeling the transparent conductive resin substrate from the light control film was evaluated according to the following evaluation criteria. When the light control layer remained on both of the two sheets of transparent conductive resin substrates and destruction occurred inside the light control layer at the time of peeling this case was designated as cohesive failure. Furthermore when the light control layer remained only on one of the transparent conductive resin substrates and the light control layer itself was not destroyed at the time of peeling only the substrate was peeled off this case was designated as interfacial peeling.

A light control film was produced in the same manner as in Example 1 except that an ITO powder manufactured by Dowa Holdings Co. Ltd. average particle size 30 nm and a mixture of pentaerythritol triacrylate and pentaerythritol tetraacrylate trade name ARONIX M 305 manufactured by Toagosei Co. Ltd. were mixed at proportions of 80 by mass and 20 by mass respectively and the light control film was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. At this time a photopolymerization initiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone was added in an amount of 3 by mass based on ARONIX M 305. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer after curing was 1.0 m.

A light control film was produced in the same manner as in Example 1 except that an ITO powder manufactured by Dowa Holdings Co. Ltd. average particle size 30 nm and a mixture of pentaerythritol triacrylate and pentaerythritol tetraacrylate trade name ARONIX M 305 manufactured by Toagosei Co. Ltd. were mixed at proportions of 85 by mass and 15 by mass respectively and the light control film was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. At this time a photopolymerization initiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone was added in an amount of 3 by mass based on ARONIX M 305. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer after curing was 1.1 m.

A light control film was produced in the same manner as in Example 1 except that a PET film trade name 300R manufactured by Toyobo Co. Ltd. thickness 125 m coated with a transparent conductive layer of ITO which had been formed by a gas phase method sputtering was used as the transparent conductive resin substrate and the light control film was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1.

A light control film was produced in the same manner as in Example 1 except that an ITO powder manufactured by Dowa Holdings Co. Ltd. average particle size 30 nm and a mixture of pentaerythritol triacrylate and pentaerythritol tetraacrylate trade name ARONIX M 305 manufactured by Toagosei Co. Ltd. were mixed at proportions of 95 by mass and 5 by mass respectively and the light control film was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. At this time a photopolymerization initiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone was added in an amount of 3 by mass based on ARONIX M 305. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer after curing was 1.3 m.

An ITO powder trade name TL 120 manufactured by Catalysts Chemicals Industries Co. Ltd. average particle size 30 nm and a bisphenol AF copolymer phenoxy resin trade name ZX1356 2 manufactured by Union Carbide Corp. weight average molecular weight Mw 62 000 were mixed at proportions of 70 by mass and 30 by mass and this mixture was dispersed in a solvent mixture of toluene ethyl acetate 1. The resulting dispersion was applied on a PET film COSMOSHINE A4100 manufactured by Toyobo Co. Ltd. thickness 125 m as a transparent resin substrate using a bar coater and was dried at 100 C. 5 min. Thus a transparent conductive resin substrate was obtained. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer after drying was 0.6 m. A light control film was produced in the same manner as in example 1 using the transparent conductive resin substrate and the light control film was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1.

A light control film was produced in the same manner as in Example 1 except that an ITO powder manufactured by Dowa Holdings Co. Ltd. average particle size 30 nm and pentaerythritol triacrylate isophorone diisocyanate urethane prepolymer trade name UA 3061 manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. were mixed at proportions of 80 by mass and 20 by mass respectively and the light control film was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. At this time a photopolymerization initiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone was added in an amount of 3 by mass based on UA 3061. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer after curing was 1.1 m.

A light control film was produced in the same manner as in Example 1 except that an ITO powder manufactured by Dowa Holdings Co. Ltd. average particle size 30 nm and 2 methacryloyloxyethyl acid phosphate trade name P 2M manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. were mixed at proportions of 80 by mass and 20 by mass respectively and the light control film was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. At this time a photopolymerization initiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone was added in an amount of 3 by mass based on P 2M. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer after curing was 1.1 m.

As shown in Table 1 and Table 2 in Examples 1 to 5 the radio wave shielding property in the frequency band of 500 MHz or higher was 5 dB or less and the radio wave transparency could be enhanced to a large extent.

Meanwhile in Comparative Examples 1 and 2 the radio wave shielding property at 500 MHz was 5 dB or greater and the radio wave transparency was low.

Furthermore in Comparative Examples 1 to 3 the adhesive strength was markedly low and also peeling occurred at the interface between the transparent conductive resin substrate and the light control film.

On the contrary in the Examples the adhesive strength was enhanced to a large extent in all cases and peeling also occurred in a cohesive failure mode so that adhesiveness could be enhanced to a large extent while maintaining the light control characteristics.

A light control film was produced in the same manner as in Example 1 except that an ITO powder manufactured by Dowa Holdings Co. Ltd. average particle size 30 nm and an acrylic acid adduct of glycerin diglycidyl ether trade name EPOXY ESTER 80MFA manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. were mixed at proportions of 85 by mass and 25 by mass respectively and the light control film was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. At this time a photopolymerization initiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone was added in an amount of 3 by mass based on 80MFA. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer after curing was 1.0 m.

A light control film was produced in the same manner as in Example 1 except that an ITO powder manufactured by Dowa Holdings Co. Ltd. average particle size 30 nm and an acrylic acid adduct of glycerin diglycidyl ether trade name EPOXY ESTER 80MFA manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. were mixed at proportions of 80 by mass and 20 by mass respectively and the light control film was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. At this time a photopolymerization initiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone was added in an amount of 3 by mass based on 80MFA. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer after curing was 1.0 m.

The surface resistivity of the transparent conductive layer was 1950 . The light transmittance of the transparent conductive resin substrate was 84 .

A light control film was produced in the same manner as in Example 1 except that an ITO powder manufactured by Dowa Holdings Co. Ltd. average particle size 30 nm and an acrylic acid adduct of propylene glycol diglycidyl ether trade name EPOXY ESTER 70PA manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. were mixed at proportions of 85 by mass and 25 by mass respectively and the light control film was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. At this time a photopolymerization initiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone was added in an amount of 3 by mass based on 70PA. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer after curing was 1.0 m.

A light control film was produced in the same manner as in Example 1 except that an ITO powder manufactured by Dowa Holdings Co. Ltd. average particle size 30 nm and an acrylic acid adduct of propylene glycol diglycidyl ether trade name EPOXY ESTER 70PA manufactured by Kyoeisha Chemical Co. Ltd. were mixed at proportions of 80 by mass and 20 by mass respectively and the light control film was evaluated in the same manner as in Example 1. At this time a photopolymerization initiator 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone was added in an amount of 3 by mass based on 70PA. The thickness of the transparent conductive layer after curing was 1.0 m.

As shown in Table 3 in Examples 6 to 9 the radio wave shielding property in the frequency band of 500 MHz or higher was 5 dB or less and the radio wave transparency could be enhanced to a large extent. Furthermore the adhesive strength was high peeling occurred in a cohesive failure mode and adhesiveness could be enhanced to a large extent while maintaining the light control performance.

According to the present invention a light control film having excellent radio wave transparency and excellent adhesiveness between the transparent conductive layer and the transparent resin substrate of the transparent conductive resin substrate can be provided.

