---

title: Accessing functions of a multi-function device
abstract: Apparatuses, systems and methods are provided for accessing functions of a multi-function device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08514417&OS=08514417&RS=08514417
owner: Ricoh Company, Ltd.
number: 08514417
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110126
---
This disclosure relates to tools systems apparatuses methodologies computer program products etc. for accessing functions of a multi function device.

In the current information age information technology IT tools are extensively used in enterprises and other organizations in order to process documents and data.

For example multi function devices MFDs are virtually a staple in the typical IT toolkit of an organization and the number of functionalities such as scanning printing copying email and web and or file browsing and so forth that may be performed by a MFD is typically large and is increasing.

However a user desiring to use the functionalities of a MFD is often forced to be physically present at the MFD to operate the MFD in order to utilize the functionalities of the MFD.

On the other hand in order to provide each of the functionalities that users that wish to obtain the conventional MFD must be configured to include the full complement of hardware and software components natively. Such approach requires the MFD to have large storage capacity processing power and other system and or network resources.

There exists a need for an improved multi function apparatus that does not need to maintain all of the resources natively for providing the functionalities that users wish to obtain.

In an aspect of this disclosure module information maintained by a maintenance part of a multi function apparatus indicates for each functionality provided to a client one or more modules corresponding to the functionality and information indicating where the module s can be obtained and a module access part determines based on the module information a first module associated with a first functionality in response to a request received from a client terminal via a network for the first functionality and retrieves the first module via the network from another device for example a multi function device or storage or other device and causes the first module to be executed in response to the request from the client terminal via the network.

In another aspect the module access part causes the first module retrieved via the network from another device to be executed by the multi function apparatus in order to provide the first functionality.

In another aspect results from execution of the first module by the multi function apparatus are provided to the client terminal via the network in response to a request from the client terminal.

In another aspect the module access part determines the first module associated with the first functionality by i analyzing module information to determine a plurality of modules corresponding to the first functionality and ii determining which of the plurality of modules corresponding to the first functionality is not installed on the multi function apparatus.

In another aspect the module access part determines the first module associated with the first functionality by i analyzing module information to determine a plurality of modules corresponding to the first functionality and ii determining which of the plurality of modules corresponding to the first functionality is not installed on the client terminal.

In another aspect the module access part provides to the client terminal via the network access to and a resource locator of a retrieved first module and the client terminal utilizes the resource locator of the first module in order to obtain the first functionality.

In another aspect the maintenance part maintains device information indicating modules of a plurality of multi function devices connected to the network and the module access part determines based on the device information maintained by the maintenance part which one of the plurality of multi function devices includes the first module associated with the first functionality.

In another aspect of this disclosure the module access part a determines based on the module information maintained by the maintenance part the first module associated with the first functionality in response to a request received from the client terminal via the network for the first functionality and b instructs a network connected device having the first module to remotely execute the first module in order to provide the first functionality.

In another aspect an execution result of the first module at the network connected device is provided via the network to any one of a client terminal the multi function apparatus a storage server etc. connected to the network.

In another aspect the module access part interfaces the client terminal and the network connected device such that the client terminal remotely accesses the first module at the network connected device via the network to obtain the first functionality.

In another aspect the module access part determines which one of a plurality of multi function devices connected to the network includes the first module and the module access part instructs said one of the plurality of multi function devices to remotely execute the first module in order to provide the first functionality.

In describing preferred embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner. In addition a detailed description of known functions and configurations will be omitted when it may obscure the subject matter of the present invention.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views shows schematically a system for remotely accessing the functions of a multi function device according to an exemplary embodiment of this disclosure where the system is an active system.

System includes a client terminal and a multi function apparatus all of which are interconnected by a network .

The multi function apparatus is configured to provide functionalities to clients such as client terminal . The multi function apparatus stores and or includes a plurality of modules and or can perform one or more functionalities as described hereinafter. The multi function apparatus may be any apparatus including a microprocessor chip or a collection of devices having varying degrees of integration that has the ability to perform one or more functionalities. The multi function apparatus and or client terminal may be a terminal or any computing device including but not limited to a personal notebook or workstation computer a kiosk a PDA personal digital assistant a tablet computing device a smartphone a scanner a printer a facsimile machine a server a mobile phone or handset another information terminal etc. The client terminal can be configured such as by software to communicate through the network with the multi function apparatus .

In a typical operation flow the multi function apparatus receives a request for a functionality hereinafter the first functionality such as from the client terminal via the network or through a user interface of the multi function apparatus. The request may be transmitted from the client terminal as a result of a user of the client terminal issuing a request for the performance execution of the first functionality. The first functionality may be for example a scanning functionality a printing functionality a copying functionality a phone voice functionality or another functionality.

The maintenance part of the multi function device maintains module information indicating for each one of a plurality of functionalities one or more modules corresponding to the functionality. depicts an example of module information maintained by the multi function device .

As seen in the module information can include a list of functionalities such as scanning functionality printing functionality copying functionality phone voice functionality and so forth . The module information also lists in association with each specific one of the listed functionalities one or more modules corresponding to that specific functionality. For example as illustrated in the scanning functionality is stored in association with the list of modules identifying a system control module a scanner user interface module a scanner image processor module and a scanner data communication module. The listed modules associated with each functionality indicate the modules required for performing that functionality. That is in the example of a system control module a scanner user interface module a scanner image processor module and a scanner data communication module are required in order to perform the scanning functionality.

The module access part of the multi function apparatus determines based on the module information maintained by the maintenance part at least one module hereinafter the first module associated with the first functionality. For example the first module may be one that is required for performing executing by the client terminal multi function device or another device the first functionality in response to the request for the first functionality received at the input part from the client terminal as described above.

Using the example of if the first functionality in the execution request is a printing functionality then the module access part may access the module information to ascertain that the printing functionality in general requires the system control module printer user interface module printer image processor module and printer data communication module.

As described in this disclosure a module refers to a unit or element required to perform a part of whole of a function. The module may be embodied as a hardware component software component and or code module installable on a multi function device or apparatus. For example a user interface module may refer to a keyboard keypad mouse or touch screen device. A controller module may refer to a software program a microprocessor or Central Processing Unit CPU . A communication module may refer to a network card network adapter or Network Interface Card NIC for example. A scanner module may refer to a scanner device that optically scans hardcopy images or object and generates a digital image. A printer module may refer to peripheral device that forms graphics on a physical print media. A printer image processor may refer to software application such as a printer driver for processing data to create printer dependent data in a format ready for printing for example.

In order to perform an operation or functionality a single module may be required or more than one module may be required. For example in order to perform a scanning operation a scanner module may alone be required or instead a scanner image processor module in combination with a system control module scanner user interface module scanner data communications module etc. may be required depending on how the functions and modules are defined. Many alternatives modifications permutations and variations will become apparent to those skilled in the art.

The module access part may thus determine one or more modules associated with the first functionality for performing the first functionality. Moreover the module access part may limit its determination of modules required by for performing the first functionality to modules not already installed at the client terminal and or the multi function apparatus . For example the module access part may store information regarding modules already stored at the client terminal and or multi function device or may communicate with devices via the network in order to obtain such information.

The module access part is also configured to retrieve the first module via the network from another device not shown connected to the network . For example if the first module is stored at another network connected device not shown the multi function apparatus may communicate with that network connected device via the network in order to obtain the first module. The retrieved first module may be stored at the storage part not shown of the multi function apparatus . Moreover the module access part is configured to cause the first module to be executed in response to the request received from the client terminal for the first functionality. That is the module access part causes the first module to be executed at the multi function device in order to provide the first functionality.

Referring back to the example based on the module information of if the first functionality in the execution request is a printing functionality and the module access part determines that a first module associated with the first functionality e.g. required to perform the printing functionality not already installed at the client terminal and or multi function apparatus is for instance the printer image processor module then the module access part retrieves the printer image processor module via the network from another device not shown connected to the network . Further the module access part causes the retrieved printer image processor module to be executed e.g. an operation of the printer image processor module is performed executed or the module is otherwise utilized in order to perform provide the printing functionality in response to the request received from client terminal .

The result of the execution of the first module at the multi function apparatus may be provided to the client terminal via the network in response to the request from the client terminal for the first functionality. For example a retrieved printer image processor module may be executed by the multi function apparatus in order to process a print job and perform a printing functionality wherein the multi function apparatus transmits the result processed print job to the client terminal via the network . Alternatively the multi function apparatus may indicate to the client terminal how to retrieve access the result of the execution of the first module.

Thus according to this exemplary embodiment of this disclosure there is provided the tools for accessing the functions distributed across a network. According to the aforementioned aspects a client terminal and or multi function apparatus is not required to install hardware and or software components for all possible functionalities. Instead when a user of a client terminal wishes to perform a particular functionality the client terminal transmits an execution request for the particular functionality to a multi function apparatus. In response the multi function apparatus determines one or more modules associated with performing the particular functionality retrieves these modules via a network from other network connected devices and causes these modules to be executed in order to provide the particular functionality to the client terminal. Thus pressure on system resources is reduced at the client terminal and multi function apparatus and shared across modules and devices throughout the network.

While the functionalities described so far include a scanning functionality a printing functionality a copying functionality and so forth it should be understood that aspects of this disclosure can be applied towards the execution of any functionality that may be performed by or with the use of a client terminal and or a multi function apparatus. Such functionalities may include a document processing functionality image processing functionality data signal processing functionality video processing functionality web conference functionality email functionality facsimile functionality web browsing functionality phone functionality voice transcription functionality and so forth. In particular the aspects of this disclosure may be applied whenever a functionality or feature thereof is executable with the use of one or more function modules. The modules may be installed in flexible combinations on one or more terminals and or multi function devices connected via network as described in this disclosure.

The multi function apparatus may include a storage part not shown configured to store code modules and a control part configured to execute the first module and one or more of the code modules to obtain the first functionality. The code modules may thus store various functions in order to support the execution of the first function.

Turning now to there is shown an example of a workflow on a multi function apparatus side such as the multi function apparatus in .

In S the multi function apparatus maintains module information indicating for each of a plurality of functionalities one or more modules corresponding to the functionality. In S the multi function apparatus determines based on the module information maintained in S a first module associated with a first functionality in response to a request for the first functionality received from a client terminal via a network.

In S the multi function apparatus retrieves the first module determined in S via the network from another device and causes the retrieved first module to be executed in response to the request for the first functionality received from the client terminal via the network.

The multi function apparatus of this disclosure may be realized by a computer program product including a computer usable non transient medium such as a disk storage apparatus having instructions tangibly embodied therein that are executed by a computer. Thus it should be understood that the multi function apparatus may be executed on a computer. While the multi function apparatus is shown as being external to the client terminal the multi function apparatus may in fact be executed on a client terminal.

The multi function apparatus may include a data store that can comprise one or more structural or functional parts that have or support a storage function. For example the data store can be or can be a component of a source of electronic data such as a document access apparatus a backend server connected to a document access apparatus an e mail server a file server a multi function peripheral device MFP or MFD a voice data server an application server a computer a network apparatus a terminal etc. It should be appreciated that the term electronic document or electronic data as used herein in its broadest sense can comprise any data that a user may wish to access retrieve review etc.

The network can include one or more of a secure intranet or extranet local area network a wide area network any type of network that allows secure access etc. or a combination thereof. Further other secure communications links such as a virtual private network a wireless link etc. may be used as well in the network . In addition the network preferably uses TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol but other protocols can also be used. How devices can connect to and communicate over the network is well known in the art and is discussed for example in How Networks Work by Frank J. Derfler Jr. and Les Freed Que Corporation 2000 and How Computers Work by Ron White Que Corporation 1999 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The multi function apparatus may be a special purpose device such as including one or more application specific integrated circuits or an appropriate network of conventional component circuits or it may be software configured on a conventional personal computer or computer workstation with sufficient memory processing and communication capabilities to operate as a terminal and or server as will be appreciated to those skilled in the relevant arts.

In multi function apparatus the controller executes program code instructions that controls device operations. The controller memory storage network interface display and keyboard are conventional and therefore in order to avoid occluding the inventive aspects of this disclosure such conventional aspects will not be discussed in detail herein.

The multi function apparatus includes the network interface for communications through a network such as communications through the network with the client terminal in . However it should be appreciated that the subject matter of this disclosure is not limited to such configuration. For example the multi function apparatus may communicate with client terminals through direct connections and or through a network to which some components are not connected. As another example the multi function apparatus need not be provided by a server that services terminals but rather may communicate with the devices on a peer basis or in another fashion.

As mentioned above multi function apparatus is not limited to a server or computer but can be manifested in any of various devices that can be configured to communicate over a network and or the Internet.

An example of a configuration of a client terminal is shown schematically in . In device includes a controller or central processing unit that communicates with a number of other components including memory display keyboard and or keypad other input output such as mouse touchpad stylus microphone and or speaker with voice speech interface and or recognition software etc. and network interface by way of internal bus .

The memory can provide storage for program and data and may include a combination of assorted conventional storage devices such as buffers registers and memories for example read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM non volatile random access memory NOVRAM etc. .

The network interface provides a connection for example by way of an Ethernet connection or other network connection which supports any desired network protocol such as but not limited to TCP IP IPX IPX SPX or NetBEUI to network .

A user interface may be provided and is configured through software natively or received through a network connection to allow the user to access electronic data or content on the client terminal and or via the network interact with network connected devices and services such as the multi function apparatus enjoy other software driven functionalities etc. For example a browser such as Internet Explorer Netscape Navigator a proprietary browser etc. may be provided on the device so that a user of the device can use browsing operations to communicate with the multi function apparatus and access other data or content.

Additional aspects or components of the device are conventional unless otherwise discussed herein and in the interest of clarity and brevity are not discussed in detail herein. Such aspects and components are discussed for example in How Computers Work by Ron White Que Corporation 1999 and How Networks Work by Frank J. Derfler Jr. and Les Freed Que Corporation 2000 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

As described above the module access part causes the first module to be executed at the multi function apparatus after the first module is retrieved via the network from the other network connected device and the result of the execution of the first module by the multi function apparatus is provided to the client terminal via the network. However it is also possible for the module access part to transmit the retrieved first module to the client terminal via the network. In this way the client terminal may itself execute the first module now present at the client terminal in order to obtain the first functionality. For example if the first functionality is the phone voice functionality such as converting an audio input into a digital signal and the first module is a voice data converter module the multi function apparatus may retrieve the voice data converter module from another network connected device and transmit the voice data converter module to the client terminal . The client terminal may then utilize the voice data converter module so that the phone voice functionality may be obtained.

On the other hand the module access part may provide to the client terminal via the network access to the retrieved first module that is now installed present at the multi function apparatus . For instance a controller of the client terminal may communicate with the retrieved first module present at the multi function apparatus through the network transmitting commands and input data to the first module via the network and receiving responses and processed output data from the first module via the network in response to the transmitted commands. Alternatively the module access part may provide to the client terminal via the network access to and a resource locator or network address of the retrieved first module and the client terminal utilizes the resource locator to the first module in order to obtain the first functionality. In this way the client terminal remotely executes the first module still installed present at the multi function device in order to obtain the first functionality. As a demonstrative example if the first functionality is the phone voice functionality and the first module is a voice data converter module the multi function device may retrieve the voice data converter module from another network connected device and allow the client terminal to remotely access the voice data converter module installed at the multi function device . The client terminal may thus utilize the voice data converter module so that the phone voice functionality may be obtained even though the voice data converter module is not transmitted to the client terminal .

According to another aspect of this disclosure the maintenance part of the multi function apparatus maintains device information indicating modules installed on a client terminal on the multi function apparatus itself and or one or more of a plurality of other network connected devices.

An example of device information is depicted in . The device information may list device names corresponding to the devices connected to the network such as client terminal MFD etc. The device information also lists the modules installed or present at each of the devices. For example it can be seen in the device information of that the client terminal has the System Control module Printer User Interface module Printer Data Communication module Speaker Control module and Microphone module.

According another aspect the module access part of the multi function apparatus is configured to determine the module s associated with the first functionality. The module access part analyzes the module information maintained by the maintenance part in order to determine a plurality of modules corresponding to the first functionality and determines based on the device information maintained by the maintenance part which if any of the modules corresponding to the first functionality is not already installed or natively available on the multi function apparatus .

Using the example of the module information of and the device information of suppose the first functionality in the execution request received from client terminal is a printing functionality. According to these aspects the following occurs i the module access part analyzes the module information of and determines that the four module s corresponding to the printing functionality are the system control module printer user interface module printer image processor module and printer data communication module and ii the module access part determines based on the device information of the multi function apparatus depicted in that of the aforementioned four modules required for performing the printing functionality the printer image processor module is not already installed or natively available on the multi function apparatus .

Thus according to this aspect the multi function apparatus determines one or more modules required by a multi function apparatus which are not natively available on the multi function apparatus for performing the desired functionality. The multi function apparatus may then retrieve and execute the one or more determined modules via the network.

According to this aspect it is also possible that the multi function apparatus may determine which of the modules corresponding to the first functionality are not already installed or natively available on the client terminal based on the device information maintained by the maintenance part . Using the example of the module information of and the device information of suppose the first functionality in the execution request received from client terminal is a phone voice functionality. Accordingly the following occurs i the module access part analyzes the module information of and determines that the four module s corresponding to the voice data functionality are the system control module speaker module microphone module and voice data converter module and ii the module access part determines based on the device information of the client terminal depicted in that of the aforementioned four modules required for performing the phone voice functionality the voice data converter module is not already installed or natively available on the client terminal .

According to another aspect of this disclosure the module access part of the multi function apparatus determines based on device information maintained by the maintenance part which one of the plurality of multi function devices MFDs includes the first module associated with the first functionality. In this example the plurality of multi function devices is considered to be devices and .

Using the example of the module information of and the device information of suppose the first functionality in the execution request received from the client terminal is a printing functionality and the module access part has determined that the system control module printer user interface module printer image processor module and printer data communication module are associated with the printing functionality. Of these only the printer image processor module is not already installed at the multi function apparatus .

The module access part then determines by referring to the device information such as that seen in that printer and copier include a printer image processor module. The module access part may then retrieve the determined module s via the network . For example the multi function apparatus may communicate with printer and or copier via the network in order to obtain the printer image processor module.

Thereafter the module access part may cause the retrieved printer image processor module to be executed in order to provide the first printing functionality as described above. A result of the execution of the retrieved module may be provided to the client terminal via the network . Alternatively it is possible for the module access part to transmit the retrieved first module to the client terminal via the network so that the client terminal may itself execute the first module now present at the client terminal in order to obtain the first functionality. On the other hand the module access part may provide to the client terminal via the network access to the retrieved first module so that the client terminal remotely executes the first module still installed present at the multi function apparatus in order to obtain the first functionality.

Turning now to there is shown an example of a workflow on a multi function apparatus side such as the multi function apparatus in according to certain aforementioned aspects of this disclosure.

In S the multi function apparatus maintains module information indicating for each of a plurality of functionalities one or more modules corresponding to the functionality. In S the multi function apparatus maintains device information indicating modules installed at a plurality of network connected devices such as a client terminal the multi function apparatus and one or more other MFD s . In S the multi function apparatus receives a request from the client terminal via a network for a first functionality. Note that the order of S through S is not fixed and may be changed.

In S the multi function apparatus analyzes the module information maintained in S to determine a plurality of modules corresponding to the first functionality. Thereafter in S the multi function apparatus determines with use of the device information maintained in S which of the modules corresponding to the first functionality is not installed at the multi function apparatus and or client terminal . In this way the multi function apparatus may determine at least a first module associated with the first functionality for performing the first functionality.

In steps S the multi function apparatus determines which one s of a plurality of MFDs connected to a network includes the first module identified in S . The multi function apparatus makes these determinations based on the device information maintained in S. In S the multi function apparatus retrieves the first module via the network from said one of the plurality of MFDs identified in S.

In S the multi function apparatus causes the first module to be executed in order to provide the first functionality in response to the request for the first functionality received from the client terminal in S . Finally in S the multi function apparatus provides a result of the execution of the first module to the client terminal.

As an alternative to steps S and S the multi function apparatus may transmit the retrieved first module to the client terminal via the network wherein the client terminal executes the first module in order to obtain the first functionality. As another alternative to steps S and S the multi function apparatus may provide to the client terminal via the network access to the retrieved first module wherein the client terminal executes the first module at the multi function device in order to perform the first functionality.

In the previous embodiment described above a module access part of a multi function apparatus retrieves a first module via a network from another device and causes the first module to be executed at the multi function apparatus in order to provide a first functionality. On the other hand in the present exemplary embodiment of this disclosure a module access part of a multi function apparatus instructs a network connected device having the first module to remotely execute the first module in order to provide the first functionality.

System includes a client terminal second device and a multi function apparatus all of which are interconnected by a network . The client terminal may be substantially similar to the client terminal depicted in . The maintenance part of the multi function apparatus is substantially similar to maintenance part of multi function apparatus depicted in .

The module access part of the multi function device may be configured to determine based on the module information maintained by the maintenance part a first module associated with a first functionality as described in the previous embodiment.

The module access part is also configured to instruct a network connected device having the first module to remotely execute the first module in order to provide the first functionality. That is if the first module is stored at second device the multi function apparatus may communicate with the second device via the network and instruct the second device to remotely execute the first module in order to provide the first functionality in response to a request received from the client terminal for the first functionality.

A result of the execution of the first module at the second device may be provided via the network from the second device to the client terminal or the multi function apparatus . Moreover the result may be transmitted to some other device not shown such as a storage server or data repository connected to the network .

As a demonstrative example the user of client terminal may transmit an execution request to the multi function apparatus for performing a printing functionality with respect to an electronic document. In this case the first functionality is a printing functionality and the first module may be a printer image processor module installed at the second device. The multi function apparatus communicates with client terminal via the network in order to obtain print job information. The multi function apparatus may transmit the print job information received from the client terminal to the second device and the multi function apparatus may instruct the second device to execute an operation of the printer image processor module at the second device based on the associated print job information in order to perform the printing functionality i.e. print a print job .

Thus a desired operation is performed on behalf of a client terminal even though all the modules required for performing the desired operation are not installed at the client terminal and or multi function apparatus. Instead the multi function apparatus accesses remotely via a network the functionalities of various modules distributed across a network and or installed at various network connected devices.

Turning now to there is shown an example of a workflow on a multi function apparatus side such as the multi function apparatus in according to this exemplary embodiment.

In S the multi function apparatus maintains module information indicating for each of a plurality of functionalities one or more modules corresponding to the functionality.

In S the multi function apparatus determines based on the module information maintained in S a first module associated with a first functionality in response to a request for the first functionality received from a client terminal via a network.

In S the multi function apparatus instructs a network connected device having the first module to remotely execute the first module in order to provide the first functionality.

It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various aspects of the multi function apparatus described in the previous embodiment are also applicable to the multi function apparatus of the present embodiment.

For example according to an aspect the maintenance part of the multi function apparatus maintains device information indicating modules installed on a client terminal on multi function apparatus itself and or one or more of a plurality of other MFDs connected to a network. An example of device information is depicted in .

According another aspect described above the module access part of the multi function apparatus determines the first module associated with the first functionality required for performing the first functionality by executing the following i The module access part analyzes the module information maintained by the maintenance part in order to determine a plurality of modules corresponding to the first functionality and ii The module access part determines which of the modules corresponding to the first functionality in i are not already installed or natively available on the multi function apparatus and or client terminal based on the device information maintained by the maintenance part

According to another aspect described above the module access part of the multi function apparatus determines based on device information maintained by the maintenance part which one of a plurality of MFDs connected to the network includes the first module associated with the first functionality.

As described above the module access part instructs a second device having the first module to execute the first module in order to provide the first functionality. However it is also possible for the module access part to instruct the second device to transmit the first module to the client terminal via the network. In this way the client terminal may itself execute the first module in order to obtain the first functionality. For example if the first functionality is the phone voice functionality such as converting an audio input into a digital signal and the first module is a voice data converter module the multi function apparatus may instruct the second device to transmit the voice data converter module to the client terminal . The client terminal may then utilize the voice data converter module so that the phone voice functionality may be obtained.

Alternatively the module access part may provide to the client terminal via the network remote access to the first module that is installed present at the second device . For example the module access part may provide to the client terminal via the network access to and a resource locator or network address of the second device and the client terminal utilizes the resource locator to access the second device in order to obtain the first functionality.

As another example the module access part may interface the client terminal and the second device such that the client terminal accesses remotely the first module installed at the second device via the network. The client terminal does this in order to obtain the first functionality. The multi function apparatus may relay data and instructions between the client terminal and the second device so that the client terminal may communicate with the first module present at the second device through the network. For example the multi function apparatus may relay commands and input data received from the client terminal to the first module via the network and the multi function apparatus may relay responses and processed output data received from the first module via the network to the client terminal . In this way the client terminal may remotely execute the first module still installed present at the second device in order to obtain the first functionality.

As a demonstrative example if the first functionality is the phone voice functionality and the first module is a voice data converter module the multi function apparatus may allow the client terminal to remotely access a voice data converter module installed at the second device . The client terminal may thus utilize the voice data converter module so that the phone voice functionality may be obtained.

If modules stored at the various network connected devices are able to communicate with each other directly via a common protocol such as HTTP HTTP s html email Fax Samba Print portal 9100 etc. then the multi function apparatus may route data between the various modules of the network connected devices via the network directly as is known in the art.

If some of the modules at different network connected devices communicate using different protocols then the multi function apparatus may process data transmitted between modules into a common data format in order to allow for proper communication between the various modules. For example if data received from the client terminal is in a first format and the second device accepts data in a second format different from the first format then the multi function apparatus may process the data in the first format from the client terminal into equivalent data in the second format and forward this data in the second format to the second device. To aid this process the multi function apparatus may store or access via the network one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs corresponding to each of the modules and or network connected devices. The APIs may contain information regarding the types of commands accepted by each of the corresponding modules and or devices.

According to another aspect the module access part of the multi function apparatus determines based on device information maintained by the maintenance part which one of a plurality of MFDs includes the first module required by a client terminal and is in close geographic proximity to a client terminal.

An example of device information is depicted in as described above. The device information may list device names corresponding to the devices connected to the network including client terminal and MFDs and shown in as being connected to multi function apparatus via the network . The device information also lists the modules installed on each of the devices as well as the location of each of the devices. For example it can be seen in the device information of that the MFD has a system control module printer user interface module and printer data communications module and that MFD is located at location X Y.

Using the example of the module information of and the device information of suppose the first functionality in the execution request received from client terminal is a printing functionality and the module access part has determined that for example a printer image processor module is required by the client terminal for performing the printing functionality.

The module access part then determines by referring to the device information such as that seen in that both MFD printer and MFD copier include a printer image processor module. The module access part also determines that for example printer having a location X Y is at a geographic location proximate to client terminal having a location X Y whereas copier having a location X Y is not at a geographic location proximate to client terminal . Put another way the module access part may determine based on device location information that printer image processor module of printer is closer to the client terminal than the printer image processor module of Copier . The location information included in the device information is not limited to geographic physical location information. For example the device information may also list a network address for each of the network connected devices in order to aid in a process of locating a device communicating with a device determining modules present on a device and where modules may be obtained in a network.

Thus according to this aspect the multi function apparatus determines which one of a plurality of MFDs connected to a network includes a first module and is in close geographical proximity to a client terminal.

As a demonstrative example of how various aspects of this disclosure may be combined reference is made to the systems of and the example device information of .

The user of client terminal utilizes the printer user interface module and printer data communication module natively present at client terminal in order to initiate a print functionality. For example the user enters commands via the printer user interface module and an execution request for performing a printing functionality is transmitted to the multi function apparatus by the printer data communication module. The system control module of multi function apparatus communicates with printer via a network and transmits data to the printer image processor module of printer with instructions for performing various image processing on the data. That is a module of the multi function apparatus instructs a network connected printer having a first module to remotely execute the first module in order to provide a printing functionality to the multi function apparatus .

The system control module of the multi function apparatus may then obtain the processed electronic data from printer and determine based on the device information maintained at the multi function apparatus which plotter module is physically closest to the client terminal . The system control module of the multi function apparatus may then transmit the processed data to the closest plotter module such as the plotter module of printer or copier . Thus the client terminal obtains a printing functionality.

Turning now to there is shown an example of a workflow on a multi function apparatus side such as the multi function apparatus in according to certain aforementioned aspects of this disclosure.

Steps S through S are substantially to steps S through S of . In S the multi function apparatus instructs a network connected device having the first module to execute the first module in order to provide the first functionality. The first functionality may be provided for example to client terminal connected to the network in response to the request for the first functionality received from the client terminal in S .

As an alternative to step S the multi function apparatus may cause a second network connected device to transmit the first module to the client terminal via the network wherein the client terminal executes the first module in order to obtain the first functionality. As another alternative to step S the multi function apparatus may provide to the client terminal via the network access to the first module at the second network connected device wherein the client terminal executes the first module at the second device in order to obtain the first functionality.

Turning now to another exemplary embodiment of this disclosure is described. In this embodiment the operation of and interaction between a plurality of modules similar to the modules described above is described. The modules may for example be installed on a multi function apparatus as described in previous embodiments and the plurality of modules may include an input part a transceiver part a storage part and an output part as described below.

System includes a client terminal and a multi function apparatus both of which are interconnected by a network .

The multi function apparatus may be a device that provides a scanning functionality a printing functionality a copying functionality a facsimile functionality and or a plurality of other functions. The multi function apparatus may be the same or substantially similar to any one of the multi function apparatuses and . The multi function apparatus may be a client terminal or any computing device including but not limited to a personal notebook or workstation computer a kiosk a PDA personal digital assistant a tablet computing device a smartphone a scanner a printer a facsimile machine a server a mobile phone or handset another information terminal etc. The multi function apparatus is configured with software allowing the multi function apparatus to communicate through the network with client terminal .

The input part of the multi function apparatus is configured to store at least one user request job such as a print job. The print job or information associated therewith may be stored in the storage part of the multi function apparatus . The print job may be received from any device connected to the multi function apparatus through a network.

The input part is also configured to register the print job on a user requested job list maintained by the multi function apparatus . depicts an example of a job list maintained by the multi function apparatus . The job list may include a list of the names of registered jobs all of which have been received by the input part of the multi function apparatus. The job list maintained by the multi function apparatus may itself be stored in the storage part of the multi function apparatus . The job list may also include other types of information relating to each registered job.

The transceiver part of the multi function apparatus is configured to receive a request for the job list and the client terminal may be configured with a user interface to allow a user to transmit a request to the multi function apparatus for the job list. For example when the transceiver part receive a request from client terminal the transceiver part outputs the job list to the client terminal in response to the request for the job list from the client terminal.

The transceiver part is also configured to receive from client terminal to which the job list was transmitted to user selection of at least one job from the job list. The client terminal may be configured with hardware and or software to allow a user of the client terminal to view the job list transmitted to the terminal from the multi function apparatus and to select one of the jobs listed in the viewable job list. The job list may be displayed on for example a monitor screen touch screen or some other display unit not shown on the client terminal.

The output part of the multi function apparatus is configured to output the job e.g. print job selected by the user of the client terminal to the client terminal.

As a demonstrative example suppose the multi function apparatus receives a request for the job list from the client terminal and the multi function apparatus then selectively outputs the job list to the client terminal. The multi function apparatus then receives from the client terminal user selection of a job from the job list transmitted to the client terminal. For instance the multi function apparatus may receive user selection of PrintJob 03 from the job list illustrated in . The output part of the multi function apparatus then transmits the selected job PrintJob 03 to the client terminal. In this way the output part of the multi function apparatus may output a job to the client terminal in response to a request for the job from the client terminal.

Further the output part may output the selected job to the client terminal in a printer dependent format corresponding to the client terminal.

For example the multi function apparatus may store a printer driver s corresponding to the client terminal and other devices connected to the network . The print jobs received and stored at the multi function apparatus may be stored in either a printer dependent or printer independent format . When a print job stored at the multi function apparatus is to be outputted to the client terminal or another device connected to the network not shown the multi function apparatus may if necessary convert the print job into a printer dependent format corresponding to the client terminal or other device connected to the network with the use of the print driver corresponding to the specific terminal device.

Thus according to this exemplary embodiment of this disclosure there is provided the tools for remotely accessing functions of a multi function apparatus. According to the aforementioned aspects a user may submit a job to the multi function apparatus without having to commit to a destination device for ultimately performing receiving the print operation. At a later time the user may then decide which terminal or device is most convenient for receiving and collecting the job. The user may then simply operate the desired destination device to communicate with the multi function apparatus and select the job from a job list and the selected job will be submitted to the desired destination device. This may be useful when for example there are a number of possible devices available for performing print jobs such as terminals or printers in one or more offices of an enterprise or other organization.

Turning now to there is shown an example of a workflow on a multi function apparatus side such as the multi function apparatus in .

In S the multi function device stores a job and registers the job on a job list maintained by the multi function apparatus. An example of such job list is depicted in . The job may be received from any device connected to the multi function apparatus via network.

In S the multi function apparatus outputs the job list to a client terminal in response to a request for the job list from the client terminal. In S the multi function apparatus receives from the client terminal to which the job list was transmitted to in S user selection of a job from the job list. illustrates an example of a user interface of the client terminal that allows a user to view a job list and select a job from the job list.

In S the multi function apparatus outputs the selected job per the user selection received in S to the client terminal. The selected job may be output to the client terminal in a printer dependent format corresponding to the client terminal.

According to another aspect of this embodiment security features are provided so that a user is only able to perform jobs that are authorized for the user.

In particular the print job stored by the input part of the multi function apparatus may be registered in the job list in association with user information wherein the user information indicates an authorized user of the job. The authorized user of the job may be for example an author or intended recipient of the job. The input part may determine the user information by analyzing job information included in the job such as print job information included in the header of the print job for example .

Furthermore the request for the job list received at the transceiver part from the client terminal may include requesting user information. The requesting user information may identify the individual operating client terminal who is requesting the job list. The requesting user information may include information such as usernames email addresses passwords screen names telephone numbers facsimile numbers and biometric information fingerprints palm prints voice or speech retinas or irises facial expressions or features signature etc. .

According to this embodiment after the transceiver part receives the request for the job list and the requesting user information the transceiver part compares the requesting user information with the user information registered in the job list and determines whether any of the user information registered in the job list matches the requesting user information. Using the job list depicted in for example if the requesting user information is the name John Smith the transceiver part determines that user information John Smith is registered in the job list and that a plurality of jobs PrintJob 71 PrintJob 72 and PrintJob 74 are registered in association with this user information John Smith .

The transceiver part only transmits a portion of the job list to client terminal that includes print jobs registered in association with the requesting user information. If for example the requesting information is John Smith the transceiver part will only transmit the portion of the job list including PrintJob 71 PrintJob 72 and PrintJob 74 registered in association with user information John Smith as seen in to the client terminal .

Thus according to this aspect security features are provided so that a user of a terminal or device is only able to view a job list of jobs that are authorized for that particular user. The user may than select one of the presented jobs which will be transmitted from the multi function device to the client terminal.

Turning now to there is shown an example of a more detailed workflow on a multi function apparatus side such as the multi function apparatus in according to this exemplary embodiment of this disclosure.

In S the multi function apparatus stores a job. The multi function apparatus also registers the job on a job list maintained by the multi function apparatus wherein the job is registered in the job list in association with user information indicating an authorized user of the job. An example of such job list is depicted in .

In S the multi function apparatus receives a request for a job list as well as requesting user information from a client terminal. Thereafter in S the multi function apparatus transmits to the client terminal a portion of the job list including jobs registered in association with the requesting user information.

In S the multi function apparatus receives from the client terminal to which the job list was transmitted to in S user selection of a job from the job list. Finally in S the multi function apparatus outputs the selected job per the user selection received in S to the client terminal in a printer dependent format corresponding to the client terminal.

In S a network connected device submits a job to the multi function apparatus. The multi function apparatus stores the job and registers the job on a job list maintained by the multi function apparatus. Thereafter in S the multi function apparatus receives a request for the job list from a client terminal. The multi function apparatus outputs the job list to the client terminal in S in response to the request received in S. The multi function apparatus then receives from the client terminal user selection of a job from the job list in S. Finally in S the multi function apparatus outputs the job per the user selection received in S to the client terminal in a printer dependent format corresponding to the client terminal.

According to another aspect of this embodiment the multi function apparatus is able to provide device data of a network connected device to a requester.

According to this aspect the input part of the multi function apparatus is configured to receive a request for the device data corresponding to a network connected device not shown connected to the network . The request for the device data may be received from the client terminal for example.

The multi function apparatus is then configured to communicate with the network connected device to obtain the device data from the network connected device. For example the input part and or transceiver part may broadcast a Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP query to the network and or the network connected device and the network connected device may respond to the query by transmitting the device data stored in a Management Information Base MIB database of the network connected device. Once the multi function apparatus receives the device data of the network connected device the device data may be stored in the storage part of the multi function apparatus . Finally the output part of the multi function apparatus transmits the obtained device data to the entity that requested the device data such as client terminal .

Turning now to there is shown an example of a more detailed workflow on a multi function apparatus side such as the multi function apparatus in according to this exemplary embodiment of this disclosure.

In S the multi function apparatus receives a request for the device data of a network connected device. The request for the device data may be received from a client terminal. Thereafter in S the multi function apparatus communicates with the network connected device to obtain the device data from the network connected device. Finally in S the multi function apparatus transmits the obtained device data to the client terminal.

Turning now to a schematic view of an example of data flow is presented according to this exemplary embodiment.

In S the multi function apparatus receives a request for the device data of a network connected device from a client terminal. In S the multi function apparatus broadcasts a query via a network to the network connected device for the device data of the network connected device. In response to the query transmitted in S the network connected device transmits the device data to the multi function apparatus in S. Finally in S the multi function device transmits the obtained device data of the network connected device to the client terminal.

According to another aspect of this embodiment the multi function apparatus is able to provide a scanned job directly to a desired destination of the scan job.

According to this aspect the input part of the multi function apparatus is configured to receive a scan job and destination information indicating a destination of the scan job. The scan job and destination information may be received from one of the client terminal . Moreover the scan job and destination information may be input directly into the multi function apparatus itself if for example the multi function apparatus includes a scanner component. The scan job and destination information received by the input part may be stored in the storage part

The output part of multi function apparatus is then configured to determine a transmission protocol corresponding to the destination of the scan job based on the destination information. For example the destination information may indicate a website an email address a fax number a printer IP address etc. and the output part determines the transmission protocol corresponding to the destination e.g. HTTP SMTP Fax protocol Print port 9100 etc. . . . . The output part processes the scan job based on the transmission protocol determined above to generate a processed scan job. For example if the destination information is an email address and the transmission protocol is determined to be SMTP the output part may generate an email directed towards the destination email address with an attachment that includes a PDF of the scanned job. Finally the output part outputs the processed scan job to the destination of the scan job.

Turning now to there is shown an example of a more detailed workflow on a multi function apparatus side such as the multi function apparatus in according to this exemplary embodiment of this disclosure.

In S the multi function apparatus receives a scan job and destination information indicating a destination of the scan job. Thereafter in the multi function apparatus determines a transmission protocol corresponding to the destination of the scan job based on the destination information. The multi function apparatus processes the scan job based on the transmission protocol determined in S to generate a processed scan job in S. Finally in S the multi function apparatus outputs the processed scan job to the destination of the scan job.

While the example shown in this disclosure include one multi function apparatus and one client terminal it should be appreciated that such numbers of devices terminals and apparatuses are arbitrary and are selected as an example in order to facilitate discussion and that the subject matter of this disclosure can be implemented in a system including one or more systems servers apparatuses and terminals. Other devices such as scanners printers and multi function devices MFDs may also be connected to a network as is well known in the art.

In system A a client terminal is connected to a first network and a multi function apparatus is connected to a second network . The multi function apparatus and the client terminal are able to communicate with each other via for example the internet .

System B of is similar to system A depicted in expect that the input part of multi function apparatus is not contained directly within the multi function apparatus. Instead the input part may be part of another multi function apparatus or a multi function device MFD connected to multi function apparatus via network .

System C of is similar to system A depicted in expect that the storage part of multi function apparatus is not contained directly within the multi function apparatus. Instead the storage part may be part of a storage repository or storage server connected to multi function apparatus via network .

The aforementioned specific embodiments are illustrative and many variations can be introduced on these embodiments without departing from the spirit of the disclosure or from the scope of the appended claims. For example elements and or features of different examples and illustrative embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

