---

title: System and method for obstruction deflection
abstract: A system and a method for obstruction deflection for a vehicle. The system generally includes a guide; and a support structure. The support structure includes one or more supports; one or more guide connectors; a fixed single support bracket; a tilt bracket; and a fixed multiple support bracket. The fixed single support bracket, the tilt bracket, and the fixed multiple support bracket are mounted to the vehicle, a first end of each of the supports is installed onto the fixed single support bracket, the tilt bracket, and the fixed multiple support bracket, a second end of each of the supports is installed onto the guide connectors, and the guide is rotatably attached to the guide connectors such that the guide is positioned longitudinally on the vehicle and the guide is curved with the vehicle on the inside of the curve. When the tilt bracket is locked to prevent tilting, and the vehicle is operated in either of a first direction and a second direction, and an obstruction is encountered by the guide, cooperative flexing of the guide and of the supports in combination deflects the obstruction away from the vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08176832&OS=08176832&RS=08176832
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08176832
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110113
---
The invention described here may be made used and licensed by and for the U.S. Government for governmental purposes without paying royalty to us.

Moving vehicles can encounter obstructions that interfere with the vehicle or with attachments that are affixed to the outside of the vehicle. Such obstructions include naturally occurring objects such as tree limbs branches vines brush and the like and man made objects such as wires fences cables signs bridges and the like. Conventional systems for deflection of such obstructions are typically rigid metal bars. Overhead obstructions can be particularly problematic as conventional metal bar obstruction deflection systems can snag on the obstructions thus causing damage to the obstruction deflection systems and similarly conventional metal bar obstruction deflection systems can snag on the obstructions causing damage to the obstruction e.g. disrupting utility service defacing infrastructures scarring trees destroying foliage etc. .

Some conventional systems include a tilt or break away feature e.g. spring loaded tilt and reset mechanism however many of such conventional systems only operate when the vehicle is moving in one direction e.g. forward . When operated in another direction e.g. vehicle reverse direction such conventional systems are often ineffective. Even systems that operate in both forward and reverse vehicle directions often snag on the obstruction rather than deflect the obstruction. Further such conventional systems may be complex expensive and prone to failure.

Yet further metal bar conventional deflection systems can present interference or reduction in performance to the electromagnetic operation of antennas that are protected from physical damage by the deflection system and occupants of the vehicles can suffer electrocution when electric utility lines are encountered by metal bar conventional deflection systems.

Thus there exists a need and an opportunity for an improved system and method for deflection of vehicle obstructions. Such improved system and method may overcome one or more of the deficiencies of the conventional approaches.

According to the present invention an obstruction deflection system for a vehicle is provided. The system generally includes a guide and a support structure. The support structure includes one or more supports one or more guide connectors a fixed single support bracket a tilt bracket and a fixed multiple support bracket. The fixed single support bracket the tilt bracket and the fixed multiple support bracket are mounted to the vehicle a first end of each of the supports is installed onto the fixed single support bracket the tilt bracket and the fixed multiple support bracket a second end of each of the supports is installed onto each of the guide connectors and the guide is rotatably attached to the guide connectors such that the guide is positioned longitudinally on the vehicle and the guide is curved with the vehicle on the inside of the curve. When the tilt bracket is locked in an upright position to prevent tilting and the vehicle is operated in either of a first direction and a second direction and an obstruction is encountered by the guide cooperative flexing of the guide and of the supports in combination generally deflects the obstruction away from the vehicle.

Two of the guides and support structures are generally positioned substantially in parallel and coupled together via a cross bar and T shaped couplings in a ladder shaped structure.

Attachments are generally mounted on the outer surface of the vehicle and the guide extends from the vehicle at a distance beyond the distance at which the attachments extend from the vehicle such that the system provides obstruction deflection protection to the vehicle and to the attachments.

The guide is generally made from at least one of fiberglass poly vinyl chloride PVC and chlorinated PVC CPVC .

The supports are generally made from at least one of fiberglass poly vinyl chloride PVC and chlorinated PVC CPVC .

The guide connector includes a tubular shaped body a pair of ears each having a hole there through and a tab and a first end of the body is sized to receive the second end of the support a radial side of the body has a threaded portion that receives a bolt a second end of the body includes the ears and the tab the portion of each of the ears that includes the holes is offset from the longitudinal axis of the body the tab opposes the ears and is at an acute angle relative to the body and the guide connector is implemented such that the ears are pointed towards the first direction of the vehicle and the tab is pointed towards the second direction of the vehicle.

The fixed multiple support bracket includes a first spar retention tube that extends in the second direction longitudinally and horizontally and a second spar retention tube that extends in the second direction and at an angle between a substantially vertical and a substantially horizontal angle.

The system fixed single support bracket the tilt bracket and the fixed multiple support bracket are generally connected to the vehicle via at least one of bolts rivets and welding.

The cross bar is generally made from at least one of fiberglass poly vinyl chloride PVC and chlorinated PVC CPVC .

Further according to the present invention a method for vehicle obstruction deflection is provided. The method generally includes mounting a support structure to the vehicle and attaching a guide to the support structure. The support structure includes one or more supports one or more guide connectors a fixed single support bracket a tilt bracket and a fixed multiple support bracket. The fixed single support bracket the tilt bracket and the fixed multiple support bracket are generally mounted to the vehicle a first end of each of the supports is installed onto the fixed single support bracket the tilt bracket and the fixed multiple support bracket a second end of each of the supports is installed onto each of the guide connectors and the guide is rotatably attached to the guide connectors such that the guide is positioned longitudinally on the vehicle and the guide is curved with the vehicle on the inside of the curve. When the tilt bracket is locked in an upright position to prevent tilting and the vehicle is operated in either of a first direction and a second direction and an obstruction is encountered by the guide cooperative flexing of the guide and of the supports in combination generally deflects the obstruction away from the vehicle.

Two of the guides and support structures are generally positioned substantially in parallel and coupled together via a cross bar and T shaped couplings in a ladder shaped structure.

Attachments are generally mounted on the outer surface of the vehicle and the guide extends from the vehicle at a distance beyond the distance at which the attachments extend from the vehicle to provide obstruction deflection protection to the vehicle and to the attachments.

The guide is generally made from at least one of fiberglass poly vinyl chloride PVC and chlorinated PVC CPVC .

The supports are generally made from at least one of fiberglass poly vinyl chloride PVC and chlorinated PVC CPVC .

The guide connector includes a tubular shaped body a pair of ears each having a hole there through and a tab and a first end of the body is sized to receive the second end of the support a radial side of the body has a threaded portion that receives a bolt a second end of the body includes the ears and the tab the portion of each of the ears that includes the holes is offset from the longitudinal axis of the body the tab opposes the ears and is at an acute angle relative to the body and the guide connector is implemented such that the ears are pointed towards the first direction of the vehicle and the tab is pointed towards the second direction of the vehicle.

The fixed multiple support bracket includes a first spar retention tube that extends in the second direction longitudinally and horizontally and a second spar retention tube that extends in the second direction and at an angle between a substantially vertical and a substantially horizontal angle.

The fixed single support bracket the tilt bracket and the fixed multiple support bracket are connected to the vehicle via at least one of bolts rivets and welding.

The cross bar is generally made from at least one of fiberglass poly vinyl chloride PVC and chlorinated PVC CPVC .

The above features and other features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed descriptions thereof when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The following definitions and terminology are applied as understood by one skilled in the appropriate art.

The singular forms such as a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. For example reference to a material includes reference to one or more of such materials and an element includes reference to one or more of such elements.

As used herein substantial and about when used in reference to a quantity or amount of a material characteristic parameter dimension and the like refer to an amount that is sufficient to provide an effect that the material or characteristic was intended to provide as understood by one skilled in the art. The amount of variation generally depends on the specific implementation. Similarly substantially free of or the like refers to the lack of an identified composition characteristic or property. Particularly assemblies that are identified as being substantially free of are either completely absent of the characteristic or the characteristic is present only in values which are small enough that no meaningful effect on the desired results is generated.

For a vehicle and a system mounted on or used in connection with the vehicle forward reverse longitudinal and vertical up down directions are generally relative to the vehicle and system as typically operated e.g. when the vehicle is operated with the respective powertrain in a forward reverse mode . As such lateral left right directions are generally perpendicular to the longitudinal vertical plane and are referenced from a vehicle operator e.g. driver perspective. A first direction e.g. forward and a second direction e.g. rearward or reverse where the second direction substantially but not necessarily wholly opposes the first direction are also generally or used in connection with the vehicle. Referenced directions are generally as shown on unless otherwise noted.

The present invention is generally directed to a system and a method for obstruction deflection. The system and method may advantageously be implemented in connection with i.e. mounted on attached to fastened on bolted upon etc. vehicles that are prone to hitting intersecting impacting etc. obstructions e.g. utility service infrastructures trees foliage and the like . In such implementations the obstruction deflection system and method may reduce eliminate or mitigate damage or destruction of the overhead obstructions and items e.g. attachments devices fixtures etc. that are mounted i.e. attached fixed installed etc. on outer surfaces of the vehicles by deflecting the obstructions via cooperative compliant motion of resilient flexible elements of the system in response to intersection of the system with the obstructions while preventing intersection of the obstructions with the vehicle or items attached to the outer surfaces of the vehicles. Attachments to the vehicle may include such devices as antennae weapons loudspeakers microphone arrays cameras etc.

With reference to the Figures the preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail. Generally the present invention provides an improved system and method for vehicle obstruction deflection.

Referring to an isometric view of an embodiment of an obstruction deflection system e.g. subsystem apparatus and the like is shown. The system generally comprises a support structure and a guide i.e. rail guide rail bow rod bar deflector etc. . The guide generally comprises one or more supports i.e. posts uprights spars masts risers etc. guide brackets i.e. joints connectors etc. fixed single support brackets i.e. mounts tilt brackets and fixed multiple support brackets .

The bow is generally articuably e.g. rotationally rotatably connected to a first end of the uprights via the connectors and a second end of the uprights is generally connected to a vehicle where the system is implemented see for example via the fixed single support brackets the tilt brackets and the fixed multiple support brackets . The connection between the second end of the mast and the brackets and is generally a fixed i.e. non rotational connection.

The bow is generally implemented as a long cylindrically shaped structure i.e. pipe tube rod pole etc. . The deflector is generally made from a sturdy compliant i.e. yieldable flexible resilient drillable non electrically conductive material such as fiberglass poly vinyl chloride PVC and chlorinated PVC CPVC . Such sturdy compliant materials may be shaped into an arcuate i.e. partially bent curved bowed etc. configuration that is both protective of structures and rugged. Further implementation of the guide using such non electrically conductive material generally avoids electronic interference e.g. radio frequency interference RFI and risk of electrocution that can result when conventional materials such as metallic rods are used. The guide may be implemented as a single unitary part or alternatively as multiple parts that are coupled together to form an integral structure.

The posts are generally implemented as rods and poles made from a sturdy compliant i.e. yieldable flexible resilient non electrically conductive material such as PVC CPVC and fiberglass.

The interfacing connections that are implemented between the deflector and the joint are generally flexible i.e. articulating rotating rotatable etc. . In one example the joint described in one example in more detail in connection with may be implemented as a pin revolute joint where the pin is substantially lateral and in another example not shown the joint may be implemented as a ball and socket joint. As the rod is generally made from a drillable material when the connectors are implemented having revolute joints to mount the rod to the connectors a hole is formed i.e. drilled punched pierced and the like through the rod such that an axis member e.g. a bolt rivet pin etc. is placed installed in the revolute joint as described in more detail below.

The fixed single support bracket generally provides a substantially solid non moving connection between the second end of one spar and the vehicle where the system is implemented. The fixed single support bracket generally orients points the spar in a substantially vertical direction.

With the improvement i.e. distinction difference update etc. described below in connection with the tilt bracket is generally implemented substantially as shown in U.S. Pat. No. D593 079 Antenna tip over mount granted to Schmitz et al. on May 6 2009 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein. The tilt bracket is generally installed such that the spar that is connected to the tilt bracket is biased i.e. angled oriented etc. in the first forward direction when the tilt bracket is in an un tilted position. When the system is configured in a first mode state implementation configuration setup etc. the tilt bracket is locked i.e. pinned bolted held fixed and the like to prevent stop tilting operation motion movement .

The fixed multiple support bracket is generally implemented in connection with two or more of the supports . The fixed multiple support bracket generally provides a substantially solid non moving connection between the second end of at least two of the spars and the vehicle where the system is implemented. One of the spars that is connected to the fixed multiple support bracket extends substantially in the second direction i.e. rearward longitudinally and horizontally between the fixed multiple support bracket and the guide rail . At least one other of the spars that is connected to the fixed multiple support bracket extends in the second direction rearward between the fixed multiple support bracket and the guide rail longitudinally and at an angle between a substantially vertical and a substantially horizontal angle. As such the deflector is generally bent substantially downward both at the front and at the rear of the vehicle where the system is implemented.

The interfacing connections that are implemented between the first end of the pole and the joint and between the second end of the pole and the fixed single support brackets the tilt brackets and the fixed multiple support brackets are generally substantially solid mechanical e.g. bolted or set screwed connections.

Referring to an isometric view of another embodiment of the system is illustrated. The system as illustrated on generally comprises two or more of the system embodiments as illustrated on i.e. the support structure and the guide combined as subsystems to form an H or ladder shaped structure. In particular as illustrated on the system may include two or more of the guides that are substantially parallel positioned and that are generally supported by the poles the connectors and the fixed single support brackets the tilt brackets and the fixed multiple support brackets and may further include a cross bar beam having two ends where each of the ends of the cross bar are coupled to sections of the guides via T shaped couplings . The interfacing connections that are implemented between the ends of the cross bar and the coupling and between the sections of the guides and the couplings are generally substantially solid mechanical e.g. bolted or set screwed connections. The cross bar is generally implemented as a rod e.g. pole made from a sturdy compliant i.e. yieldable flexible resilient non electrically conductive material such as PVC CPVC and fiberglass.

Referring to isometric views of embodiments of the system as illustrated on implemented in connection with i.e. installed on mounted on etc. vehicles are illustrated. For clarity the vehicles and attachments thereon are shown in phantom to illustrate an environment in which the system may be implemented. The fixed single support brackets the tilt brackets and the fixed multiple support brackets are generally mounted to the vehicle by secure mechanical connections such as those formed via at least one of bolts rivets welding etc. The system may be mounted on the vehicle such that the guides are generally positioned longitudinally and the guide is generally curved with the vehicle on the inside i.e. concave side of the curve. The system may be mounted on the vehicle such that the guides extend from the vehicle at a distance beyond the distance at which the attachments extend from the vehicle such that the system generally provides obstruction deflection protection to the vehicle and to the attachment . In another example the system may be installed on a vehicle when no attachment is installed on the vehicle .

The fixed single support brackets the tilt brackets and the fixed multiple support brackets in combination with the spars and the joints are generally sized and positioned such that the guides are bowed curved above the vehicle and the attachments thereon. As such when the system is configured with the tilt bracket in a locked upright position and the vehicle is operated in either of a first forward direction and a second reverse direction and an obstruction is encountered by the system i.e. by the guide cooperative flexing of the guide and the spar in combination generally deflects i.e. slides moves pushes glides etc. the obstruction away from the vehicle and the attachment .

Referring to a broken left side elevation view of the left rear portion of the system is illustrated. Bolts may be installed to provide an axis between the rod and the joint and to provide mechanical connections between the support and the joint the support and the tilt bracket the support and the fixed multiple support bracket and the fixed multiple support bracket and the vehicle . While not illustrated in as described above see also and associated description similar secure mechanical e.g. bolted connections may be implemented in connection with the support and the fixed single support bracket and the fixed single support bracket and the vehicle .

Referring to a broken view from below and towards the rear of the center portion of the embodiment the system as illustrated on is shown. The bolt may be implemented to provide mechanical connections between the bow and the coupling and the cross bar and the coupling . For convenience the bow may be implemented in two sections that are substantially butted together within the coupling .

Referring to an example of an embodiment the guide bracket is illustrated. is a side elevation view of the guide bracket is an isometric view of the guide bracket and is a broken isometric view of a portion of illustrating additional detail of the guide bracket . The connector generally comprises a tubular shaped body a pair of ears flanges each having a hole there through and a tab extension .

A first end of the body is generally sized to receive the first end of the spar . The radial side of the body generally has a threaded portion that may receive the bolt . A second end of the body generally includes the ears and the tab . The portion of the ear that includes the hole is generally offset from the longitudinal axis of the body . The tab generally opposes the ear and may be at an acute angle relative to the body . The joint is generally implemented such that the ears are pointed towards the first forward direction of the vehicle and the tab is pointed towards the second rearward direction of the vehicle .

Referring to an isometric view of an example of the fixed single support bracket is illustrated as installed on the vehicle via the bolts . In other examples not shown structure similar to the illustrated example of the fixed single support bracket may be implemented to meet the design criteria e.g. size shape number of attachment holes etc. of a particular application as understood by one of ordinary skill.

Referring an isometric view of an example of the fixed multiple support bracket is illustrated as installed on the vehicle via the bolts . The fixed multiple support bracket generally comprises a first spar retention tube that extends in the second direction rearward longitudinally and horizontally and a second spar retention tube that extends in the second direction rearward and at an angle between a substantially vertical and a substantially horizontal angle i.e. at an acute angle . In other examples not shown structure similar to the illustrated example of the fixed multiple support bracket may be implemented to meet the design criteria e.g. size shape number of attachment holes etc. of a particular application as understood by one of ordinary skill.

Referring to isometric views from the upper left and right respectively looking rearward of the tilt bracket are illustrated. The tilt bracket is generally implemented as an improved version of the tilt bracket of U.S. Pat. No. D593 079. The tilt bracket of U.S. Pat. No. D593 079 is improved herein via the addition of a tilt locking mechanism. The tilt bracket generally comprises a base a cradle two struts and a lock pin e.g. dowel fastening rod peg etc. illustrated with a lanyard that may retain the lock pin to the tilt bracket . In addition bolts may be implemented in connection with holes in the tilt bracket . Holes in the base and the cradle on each side may be cooperatively aligned and sized to receive either one long or two short bolts such that the bolt may act as an axis for a tilting motion of the cradle from an upright position to a back or rearward position. For an illustration of the tilting motion of the cradle see for example U.S. Pat. No. D593 079 on and .

The base and the cradle may also include additional holes on each side that may be cooperatively aligned and sized to receive the lock pin . When installed through the mating holes in the base and the cradle the lock pin generally prevents the tilt bracket from tilting i.e. the lock pin generally fixes the tilt bracket . illustrate the locking pin in an un installed position such that the tilt bracket may tilt.

The lock pin is generally implemented as a quick release pin having a retention feature e.g. internal retention hairpin springs spring loaded balls and the like that generally prevents the lock pin from coming loose during normally expected operation of the vehicle and yet allow an operator to remove the lock pin without tools as would be known to one of skill in the art. In one example the lock pin may be implemented as a push pull quick release pin wherein the pin comprises a solid or hollow shank containing a detent assembly that includes a locking lug button or ball that is backed up urged into position by a resilient member such as a core plug or spring. In another example the lock pin may be implemented as a positive locking single acting or double acting quick release pin. The single acting quick release example of the pin generally comprises a plunger actuated locking mechanism with a locking element that extends from the pin shank surface to provide a positive lock and when a button or lever is actuated the locking element generally retracts. The double acting quick release example of the pin generally comprises a bi directional plunger and movement of the plunger in either direction may release the locking element.

In yet another example the lock pin may be implemented as a bolt in connection with an appropriate nut.

Referring to an isometric view from the upper right looking rearward of the tilt bracket is illustrated. The tilt bracket is shown having the lock pin installed such that the tilt bracket is fixed and thus does not generally tilt.

When the system is configured without the lock pin installed to prevent the tilt motion of the tilt bracket the tilt bracket may tilt back when an obstruction is encountered and the system also generally does not include the guides and the guide brackets . The supports may also be deleted. Thus when the system is configured such that the tilt bracket may tilt the system generally implements the tilt motion of the tilt bracket to provide obstruction deflection.

While the system is illustrated and described in connection with mounting installation implementation etc. substantially on the top of the vehicle the system may be mounted on the sides front and or rear of the vehicle such that obstruction deflection and thus protection may be provided to the respective surfaces of the vehicle and the attachments .

As is apparent then from the above detailed description the present invention may provide an improved system i.e. the system and method e.g. proces steps etc. implemented in connection with the system for obstruction deflection especially but not necessarily exclusively in connection with the vehicle . The system and the associated method may include such advantageous features as 

Various alterations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of this invention and it is understood this invention is limited only by the following claims.

