---

title: Active aluminum rich coatings
abstract: Chromate-free corrosion-inhibiting coating compositions comprising film-forming binders and galvanic aluminum alloy powders prepared in an oxygen (oxidizing), nitrogen (inert) or nitrogen-hydrogen (reducing) atmosphere having particle sizes ranging up to 100 microns. The aluminum alloy powders having the formula: aluminum-zinc-X (AlZnX) wherein X is an element selected from the group consisting of indium, gallium, tin and bismuth. Improvement in corrosion protection is obtained by the addition of chemical inhibitors such as an azole or talcite clay to the coating which further inhibits the self-corrosion of the aluminum alloy and extends the corrosion protection of the metal substrate being protected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08262938&OS=08262938&RS=08262938
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Navy.
number: 08262938
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110121
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

Various surfaces and particularly metal surfaces require the protection of coatings especially when the surfaces are exposed to corrosive environments. Metal surfaces of aircraft for example are exposed to seawater which require protection from corrosion. Specifically aircraft e.g. Navy aircraft are exposed to seawater spray in addition to various acid forming gases such as sulfur dioxide carbon dioxide etc. Moreover in addition to aircraft various machinery and equipment in the industrial environments where fossil fuels are used need protection against corrosion. It is important therefore that the coating be resistant to corrosion various chemicals the weather and at the same time be flexible and have good adhesion to the metal surface. The coating may be applied by various methods including spraying rolling or brushing onto the surface depending on the viscosity. The viscosity of the coating for the particular application may be achieved by adjusting the content of the solvent within the ranges specified and by the selection of the particular reactants used to form the polymeric binder.

Many metallic pigments are known which provide electrochemical electrical thermal barrier and other properties to compositions which are used for protecting material such as metal from corrosion maintaining electrical conductivity shielding equipment from electromagnetic fields resisting elevated temperatures and providing protection from moisture. Silver gold and other noble metal pigments are used for their electrical conductivity and thermal conductivity properties. Zinc and magnesium are used for their electrochemical properties. Aluminum is used for its thermal and chemical barrier properties. A major shortcoming of the noble metals is their strong cathodic potential. When used in products for electrical and thermal management the noble metals can couple with anodic materials like aluminum alloys used for electrical equipment.

A shortcoming of zinc pigments is low electrical conductivity and low thermal conductivity compared to the noble metals and relatively poor resistance to chlorides and other corrosive materials. A shortcoming of magnesium pigments is high relative anodic potential compared to other metals. In addition magnesium forms a protective oxide spontaneously in air rendering it less effective than zinc for the sacrificial protection of steel and other cathodic materials.

Galvanically active metallic powders or pigments have been added to coatings or paints for at least 60 years. These pigments are intended to impart galvanic or electrochemical protection to the coated metal by polarizing the metal to an operating potential which does not allow for corrosion to occur. Coatings containing zinc or magnesium based pigments are the most common. Zinc is typically used to protect steel. U.S. Pat. No. 3 615 730 discloses zinc rich primers based on inorganic silica which binds and supports the zinc powder and keeps it intact to the substrate. Zinc rich primers based on organic epoxy and polyurethane resins are commercially available and specified by DoD in MIL DTL 24441 Formula 159 MIL P 21035 and A A 5975. A major drawback is that zinc based galvanic primers or protective coatings do not perform well in highly corrosive acidic chloride environments leading to premature corrosion and hydrogen cracking of high strength steel alloys. Another problem is that zinc is cathodic to aluminum and its alloys in many environmental conditions and therefore will not provide galvanic protection. The relative operating potential of zinc versus aluminum alloys is shown in .

Another class of metal filled coatings is based on magnesium powder. The US Navy investigated the merit of magnesium rich epoxy primers and documented the results of performance of these coatings on aluminum alloys in NADC MA 7063 Investigation of Metallic Pigments as Corrosion Preventives in Aircraft Primers A. Stander Oct. 5 1970. These coatings were not adopted by the Navy as they did not perform as well as the chromated epoxy primers qualified to MIL P 23377 and used on aircraft at the time especially in SOsalt fog testing as defined by ASTM G85.

Magnesium rich primers developed by North Dakota State University and documented in US Patent applications US2007 0128351 A1 and US2009 0155598 A1 which are commercially available from Akzo Nobel exhibit similar performance limitations. Regardless of what is done to these coatings the operating potential of magnesium remains very high negative compared to aluminum leading to higher self corrosion rates and lower efficiencies. These coatings also exhibit unusual failure mechanisms which are not well understood.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 336 303 discloses electrochemically active paints based on magnesium magnesium alloys and calcium alloys which have a high negative operating potential to protect steel substrates. These coatings provide protection but also suffer from high self corrosion rates low efficiencies and poor performance in highly acidic chloride environments like those seen by Navy aircraft ships and facilities.

Coatings with aluminum powders have been used for over 100 years. These coatings are excellent barriers to the environment and provide good thermal stability and protection. Many bridges tanks and other steel structures have been painted with aluminum pigmented coatings over the years with much success. These coatings do not however provide galvanic or electrochemical protection of the metal surface on which they are coated since the aluminum powder or flakes are covered with aluminum oxide which inhibits electrochemical action. These uses and shortcomings are well documented in Aluminum Paint and Powder by J. D. Edwards and R. I. Wray 3Edition 1955.

However magnesium zinc and aluminum anodes are currently used in bulk form to protect metal from corrosion. To be effective the anodes need to be in contact electrically with the object they are protecting when immersed in water or an electrolyte. There is extensive literature which describes the pros and cons of each anode material. Aluminum anodes are preferred since they are inexpensive and provide the highest efficiency of the three metals.

Table 1 shows the electrical out put and cost effectiveness of these three metals based on weight. With regard to recent spot prices for each metal and their relative cost effectiveness clearly aluminum is superior to zinc and magnesium and therefore preferred based on cost weight and longevity.

Table 1 Comparison of Electrical Properties of Magnesium Zinc and Aluminum from Reding J. T. Newport J. J. The Influence of Alloying Elements on Aluminum Anodes in Sea Water. Materials Protection Vol. 5. December 1966 pages 15 19 .

Before the 1970 s aluminum anodes were not used for the same reasons stated herein for aluminum powders and flakes. The bulk material rapidly passivated rendering the anode inactive and incapable of protecting the intended metal object. The development of activated aluminum alloys began in the mid 1960 s. The intellectual property is documented in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 379 636 3 281 239 3 393 138 by Dow Chemical and U.S. Pat. No. 3 240 688 by Olin Mathesin. All of these alloys were unique in that for the first time bulk aluminum alloys were shown to remain active and galvanically protect metal. Unfortunately none were commercially successful as they all suffered from low efficiencies making them less economical than zinc anodes. During the 1970 s Dow developed an aluminum anode alloy which does not passivate and has very high efficiencies approaching 90 of theoretical.

In addition to being highly efficient versus theoretical this alloy was designed to have an operating potential of 1.05 volts versus Ag AgCl reference electrode. This is about the same as zinc and optimum for protecting aluminum and steel structures. Aluminum alloys used on aircraft amphibious and ground vehicles and other common DoD and commercial applications have operating potentials that range from about 0.800 to 0.0700 volts and alloy steels have operating potentials around 0.650 volts. The operating potential gap between the aluminum anode and the materials it s designed to protect is therefore about 200 300 millivolts for aluminum and 350 millivolts for steel.

This gap is enough to provide protection but not so large that the anode rapidly self corrodes like magnesium. This anode alloy has been investigated for use as a bulk coating of concrete with imbedded steel rebar and applied by flame spray processes.

This invention is directed to galvanic pigmented coatings based on an aluminum alloy powder without the typical passive oxide film and with an additional chemical inhibitor. The coating is designed to provide electrochemical protection to aluminum steel and other metallic objects on which it is applied withstand the severe operating environment of Navy aircraft ships and facilities as well as any other outdoor environment at low cost and easy to mix and apply. The Al Zn metal alloy e.g. Al Zn In was procured in bulk from Galvotec Inc. a qualified supplier for MIL A 24799. Ames National Laboratory processed this bulk aluminum alloy to spherical powders using their gas atomization process. The bulk aluminum zinc metal alloy was processed in an oxygen oxidizing or nitrogen hydrogen N H reducing atmosphere to obtain spherical aluminum alloy powders.

This invention relates to chromate free corrosion inhibiting coatings for metal substrates including for example aluminum aluminum alloys iron and various other ferrous metals such as steel.

The chromate free corrosion inhibiting coatings for application onto metal substrates consists essentially of in parts by weight from about

40 to 85 and preferably 50 to 70 parts of a galvanic aluminum alloy powder prepared in an oxygen or nitrogen hydrogen atmosphere having a particle size ranging from about 2 to 100 microns e.g. 2 12 12 20 20 45 or 45 100 microns said aluminum alloy powder having a composition formula of Aluminum Zinc X

wherein X is an element selected from the group consisting of indium gallium tin and bismuth from about

1.0 to 10 and preferably from 2.0 to 6.0 parts of at least one ionic corrosion inhibitor selected from the group consisting of Hybricor 204 an inorganic hydro talcite clay benzimidazole benzothiazole benzoxazole diphenyltriazole benzotriazole and tolylazole and effective amounts of solvent e.g. water or an organic solvent ranging up to about 50 e.g. from about 10 25 by weight of the coating.

The binder for the coating is selected from the group consisting of polyacrylates polyurethanes polyimides polymers derived from epoxies polymers derived from isocyanates and the uncured pre polymers of said polymers. The film forming binder also can be selected from the group consisting of polymers derived from silanes siloxanes silicones silicates zirconates and titanates.

In theory a metal that is less noble than another in which it is in contact e.g. aluminum on steel can function as a corrosion inhibitor when added to a coating as pigment particles or powder. However aluminum particles whether in a coating or not have a naturally forming oxide film on their surface which is electrically insulating and prevents the aluminum from protecting these materials from corrosion. Therefore it was found necessary to add very small amounts of alloying elements to aluminum and aluminum alloys which inhibit the formation of aluminum oxide on the surface of the particles. Aluminum particles of this nature remain electrically active and are able to retard corrosion of metals which are more cathodic electropositive than the particles. For purposes of this invention the aluminum alloy Al Zn In was made into particles. The addition of indium alternatively gallium tin or bismuth effectively inhibits the formation of oxide as particles made from pure Al or Al Zn form the natural oxide which renders the particle inert for galvanic corrosion protection. Further improvement in corrosion protection of a substrate material is possible by the addition of another chemical corrosion inhibitor such as triazole or talcite clay which helps inhibit the self corrosion of the active aluminum alloy particle and extends the corrosion protection of the surface being protected. The Al Zn In particles inhibit corrosion on their own but are even more effective when combined with a corrosion inhibitor. For the purpose of this invention this inhibitor includes talcite clay benzimidazole benzothiazole benzoxazole diphenyltriazole.

The following Examples illustrate the aluminum rich alloy Al Zn X coating compositions of this invention.

Panels with coatings made from DP 1 and DP 2 as prepared in Example 1. Coatings were applied to aluminum 2024 and 7075 panels which had been mechanically abraded or treated with MIL DTL 81706 TYPE II TCP a commercial conversion coating. Panels were scribed through the primer and into the aluminum alloy with a carbide tipped stylus in an X pattern with each line of the X approximately 4 inches long. One set was exposed to ASTM BI 17 neutral salt fog one set to ASTM G85 Annex 4 SOsalt fog and one set placed on beach front exposure racks at Kennedy Space Center.

Galvanic test panels using coatings prepared in Example 1 were prepared and placed on beach front exposure racks along with panels and coatings described in Example 2. to show the coatings after four months. Table 2 shows undercutting ratings at various intervals compared to control coatings made using MIL PRF 2337 Class N non chromated primer. The DP 1 and DP 2 coatings outperform all coatings including chromated primers qualified to MIL PRF 23377 Class C and MIL PRF 85582 Class C.

Panels and coatings prepared in Example 3 were exposed to ASTM B 117 and ASTM G85 Annex 4 SOsalt fog tests. shows the coatings after 840 hours in SOsalt fog. Coatings on both alloys in SOsalt fog show no evidence of corrosion of the substrate aluminum. Panels in ASTM 13117 show similar outstanding performance after 2520 hours as shown in .

Aluminum 5 zinc 0.015 indium was melted into ingot. This ingot was cut into small pieces and atomized using a gas atomization process. In this process spherical powders were made using an oxygen O atmosphere. Powders were sieved in three powder size ranges 

These coatings were applied to aluminum alloys scribed and exposed to corrosive test environments. The aluminum 5 zinc 0.015 indium alloy pigment Al Zn In protected the aluminum substrate from corrosion in these tests verifying its electrochemical activity. Control coatings made with 99.99 pure aluminum powder were tested alongside the alloy and did not protect the aluminum substrate. Electrochemical assessments of the open circuit potential and electrochemical impedance of the pigment confirm the corrosion tests.

The following examples illustrate the process for preparing specific examples of aluminum zinc metal alloys of this invention.

Specific examples of aluminum zinc metal alloy used for preparing coatings were obtained from Galvotec Alloys Inc. which has the following chemical analysis 

Additional aluminum alloy powders useful for preparing the coating of this invention are shown in Table 3.

The film forming binders used in preparing the aluminum alloy coatings of this invention include the epoxies isocyanates acrylics and the uncured or precursors of these polymers including the polyimides and the precursors i.e. the polyamic acids. These imide polymers are well known and include polyimide precursors derived from aromatic dianhydrides polyamines and reactive crosslinkable monofunctional endcaps. Preferred dianhydrides include pyromeliticdianhydride PMDA benzophenone tetracarboxylic dianhydride hexafluoroisopropylidene bis phthalic anhydride HFDA biphenyltetracarboxylic dianhydride BPDA and benzophenone tetracarboxylic dianhydride BPDA . Various polyfunctional aromatic amines including diamines triamines and tetraamines and mixtures thereof can be used to prepare the polyimide precursors or polymers.

The inorganic and organic polymers used for preparing the aluminum alloy coating compositions range from about 15 to 50 parts and preferably 20 to 40 parts by weight of the coatings. Other known polymers include the epoxy resins or epoxy resin precursors and polymers derived from isocyanates and the isocyanate precursors. For purposes of this invention the term epoxy precursors includes epoxy or epoxie compounds having one or more oxirane groups i.e. an oxygen atom bonded to vicinal carbon atoms. Of the various precursors of epoxies particularly suitable for purposes of this invention are precursors that are liquid at room temperature. Specifically the epoxy precursors include compounds which can be characterized either as saturated or unsaturated aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic or heterocyclic compounds. The curable epoxy precursors may be prepared in various solvents which include organic solvents which escape from the coating by evaporation during the curing step. These solvents are well known and include for example esters such as butyl acetate ethyl acetate acetates of ethylene glycol monoethyl ether Cellosolve acetate methyl Cellosolve acetate and the ethers alcohols.

Other preferred binders for the aluminum rich coatings comprise the polyurethanes derived from the isocyanates or urea and more particularly the aliphatic polyurethanes derived from the reaction of polyols and multifunctional aliphatic isocyananates. The polyol is preferably used in an organic solvent e.g. toluene xylene n butyl acetate methylethyl ketone etc. The hydroxyl number of the polyol and the isocyanate NCO content or the equivalent weights of the isocyanate and polyol are determined in order to obtain the desired polyurethane. The preferred polyols and isocyanates are reacted in approximately stoichiometric amounts so that the NCO to hydroxyl ratio ranges from about 0.85 to 1.6 equivalent of the NCO to 1.0 equivalent of the OH. Specific compounds used in preparing these binders include for example isocyanates such as diphenylmethane 4 4 diisocyanate toluene 2 4 diisocyanate tetramethylene diisocyanate decamethylene diisocyanate ethylene diisocyanate propylene 1 2 diisocyanate and the like. Preferred polyisocyanates include hexamethylene diiocyanate and methylene bis 4 cyclohexyl isocyanate e.g. DISMODUR N. By selecting the proper polyols and by adjusting the NCO to OH ratio the physical properties and efficiency of the film such as the strength of film flexibility chemical resistance solvent resistance etc. can be controlled over a wide range.

Examples of other binders include the polyacrylates such as the polyalkylacrylates polymethacrylates polymethylmethacrylate polybutylmethacrylate polyethylmethacrylate polypropylmethacrylate and combinations thereof. Also included as binders are the water soluble acrylics latex emulsion coatings.

Inorganic binders can be used in the present invention and include those described in Lloyd M. Smith editor Technology Publishing Pittsburgh Pa. This publication is hereby incorporated by reference. For example the coatings prepared from inorganic binders which have a modified SiOstructure can be derived from silicates silanes siloxanes or silicones.

The coatings can be applied to the substrate in the form of a suspension or solution in a suitable solvent or combination of solvents. Application can be carried out by any technique for example spraying brushing rolling flooding immersion to achieve a suitable coating thickness ranging up to about ten 10 mils.

A variety of organic solvents are known and which can be used for purposes of this invention. The preferred solvents are substantially non polar or oleophilic solvents. These preferred solvents include aromatic or aliphatic hydrocarbons. Aromatic solvents include benzene toluene xylenes naphtha and fractions from the distillation of petroleum. Aliphatic hydrocarbon solvents include hexane cyclohexane heptanes octanes and similar straight and branched hydrocarbons and mixtures thereof generally having 4 16 carbon atoms. Included are the aliphatic fractions from distillation of petroleum including mineral spirits and various mixtures of these solvents in any ratio. Aqueous systems include the acrylic resins well known for use in latex coatings.

The wetting agents used to apply the coatings to the metal surface are added to the coatings in amounts ranging from about 0.0 2.0 part by weight and preferably in amounts ranging from about 0.1 to 1.5 part. These wetting agents preferably include the lower weight glycols such as ethylene or propylene glycols the aliphatic alcohols alkoxyalcohols ethers etheralcohols glycol ethers and combinations thereof.

The viscosity or thickening of the coating may be adjusted for the particular method of application by adding inert organic solvents. The coated metal surface may be dried by exposure to air or by baking. If the coating composition is of correct viscosity the coating or film can be applied directly to the metal surface and baking may not be necessary. The film thickness may not be critical however a coating ranging up to about 0.003 inches or more per square foot for coatings of aircraft frames or other structural members may be sufficient to provide adequate corrosion protection. The coatings are applied onto the substrates at thickness ranging from about 0.001 to 0.003 inches e.g. up to ten mils. The coating may be applied by various methods including spraying rolling or brushing onto the surface depending on the viscosity. The viscosity of the coating for the particular application may be achieved by adjusting the content of the solvent within the ranges specified and by the selection of the particular reactants used to form the polymeric binder.

While this invention has been described by a number of specific examples it is obvious to one skilled in the art that there are other variations and modifications which can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as particularly set forth in the appended claims.

