---

title: Home energy management system incorporating a pool pump
abstract: An energy management system for a home network is provided. The energy management system includes one or more power consuming devices, including at least a pool pump system having a motor and a filter with a filtration cycle, a central controller operatively connected to the power consuming devices and configured to receive and process a signal indicative of the current state of an associated utility, including at least a peak demand state and an off-peak demand state, and a display. The central controller is configured to operate the pool pump system in one of a plurality of operating modes, including at least a normal operating mode and an energy savings mode, and to provide pool pump usage information to a user via a user interface on the display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08489242&OS=08489242&RS=08489242
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08489242
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110106
---
This disclosure relates to an energy management system and more particularly to the management of devices in an energy management system. The disclosure finds particular application to incorporating a pool pump in energy management platforms.

Many utilities are currently experiencing a shortage of electric generating capacity due to increasing consumer demand for electricity. Currently utilities charge a flat rate but with increasing cost of fuel prices and high energy usage at certain parts of the day utilities have to buy more energy to supply customers during peak demand. Lowering peak demand provides a huge cost savings and lessens the peak load that the utility has to accommodate. In order to reduce high peak power demand many utilities have instituted time of use TOU metering and rates which include higher rates for energy usage during on peak times and lower rates for energy usage during off peak times. As a result consumers are provided with an incentive to use electricity at off peak times rather than on peak times and to reduce overall energy consumption of power consuming devise in a home network at all times.

A home energy management system has been developed and described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 892 130 GE 237986 fully incorporated by reference herein that can automatically operate and disable power consuming devices in a designated home network in response to signals received from a utility. The energy management system includes a central controller such as a Home Energy Manager HEM Home Energy Gateway HEG in communication with each of the power consuming devices and provides a homeowner the means to monitor and manage their energy consumption through a combination of behavior modification and programmed control logic. The HEM HEG provides real time feedback to a user regarding the performance and energy consumption of the devices in the home network. Active and real time communication of energy costs of power consuming devices to the consumer enables informed choices for operating those power consuming functions.

The home energy management system is designed to manage the operation of power consuming devices in a home network and provide homeowners with power and cost saving information. It would be advantageous however to further include additional devices into the system such as a pool pump and enable users to control the device and decide how the device should react in periods of high demand to provide cost and energy savings.

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure an energy management system for a home network is provided. The energy management system includes one or more power consuming devices including at least a pool pump system having a motor and a filter with a filtration cycle a central controller operatively connected to the power consuming devices and configured to receive and process a signal indicative of the current state of an associated utility including at least a peak demand state and an off peak demand state and a display. The central controller is configured to operate the pool pump system in one of a plurality of operating modes including at least a normal operating mode and an energy savings mode and to provide pool pump usage information to a user via a user interface on the display.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method for reducing the peak power consumption of a pool pump system in an energy management system including one or more power consuming device a central controller configured to receive and process a signal indicative of the current state of an associated utility the utility state being at least one of a peak demand period and an off peak demand period and a pool pump system having a motor and filter with a filtration cycle. The method comprises the steps of a receiving and processing a utility state signal into the central controller b at least one of operating and scheduling to operate the pool pump system such that the pool pump system operates primarily during an off peak demand period and c operating the pool pump system in a reduced flow condition during periods of peak demand.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the present disclosure a pool pump for use in an energy management system having one or more power consuming devices and a central controller configured to receive and process a signal indicative of the current state of an associated utility including at least a peak demand state and an off peak demand state is provided. The pool pump system comprises a motor configured to drive water from an associated pool through the pool pump a filter capable of filtering contaminates from pool water and a flow reducing device configured to limit the amount of water flow that is filtered through the pool pump. The central controller is configured to activate the flow reducing device in response to a signal indicative of a peak demand state.

As briefly described above the home energy management system comprises an electronic system having a home energy manager HEM home energy gateway HEG acting as a central controller operationally coupled to a home network of power consuming devices that provides a homeowner the means to monitor and manage their energy consumption through a combination of behavior modification and programmed control logic. The central controller provides real time feedback on electricity water and natural gas consumption as well as providing data on renewable energy generation occurring at the home such as solar photovoltaic generation wind generation or any other type of renewable energy generation.

The central controller also stores consumption data and provides data to a user via an associated user interface display. According to a first configuration the central controller operates as a data server for providing data through an application programming interface API in a client application which can then be used to present this data to the homeowner on a client device. Once data is received by the API the client device program uses this information to generate graphs of energy usage generation and or storage on the client device. In another configuration data pertaining to the consumer s energy consumption generated energy and or storage is displayed on a display such as an LCD touch screen display integral with the central controller. Additionally through a web server integrated in the controller the display on other devices in communication with the central controller such as a homeowner s networked PC mobile phone or other device may further be used to display energy data to a user.

A communication device such as a ZigBee radio may be implemented to facilitate communication signals between the central controller and devices within the home while a second radio operates similarly between the central controller and the utility such as for demand response event signals price signals. Any communication protocol can be implemented and the present disclosure is not limited to ZigBee as one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate. The central controller may operate as a gateway device by caching or storing information from devices within a home such as historical power consumption data or demand response event information from the utility. The central controller therefore provides the necessary information from the utility to the devices in home network for them to operate in accord with the utility signals and or user preferences.

The controller may include a user interface having a display . The display may include an LCD touch screen for enabling use interaction and input regarding what information is displayed or the user interface can include separate control buttons for making various operational selections. The user interface and display may comprise a cellular phone PDA personal computer tablet computer smart phone pager television and the like. The controller is configured to gather information and data related to current usage patterns and as well as current power costs and generate historical usage charts therefrom. This information can be used to determine current energy usage and cost associated with using each device appliance in at least one of the energy savings mode and normal mode. This real time information i.e. current usage patterns current power cost and current energy usage cost can be presented to the user via the display.

The devices and may additionally transmit energy power consumption information to the central controller . The controller may comprise a memory having at least table of that collects energy consumption generation and or storage data for a home or other network e.g. warehouse business etc. . The table comprises variables associated with the heating and cooling conditions of the home for example. A table may be generated for each device and any given operating mode that includes historical home data that is currently updated and future projected data which may be used in a client application of a client device such as a computer or mobile phone for presenting graphs or other data to the user.

The controller communicates to the sensor radios via one or more wireless radios. The interface radios may include ZigBee 802.15.4 WiFi 802.11 and an FM receiver. The device controller can also include USB ports for adding additional functionality.

In one embodiment the controller connects via either Ethernet or WiFi to the homeowner s router and to a client application in a personal computer and or a mobile device to access the Internet of . This allows for remote service and monitoring capability. A server can keep records of all homes therein that may be accessed remotely via the interne.

In accordance with the present disclosure the home energy management system includes a pool pump as illustrated in . Typically pool pumps include an electric motor that spins an impeller inside the pump housing driving the water from the various drains through a filtration cycle and back out to the pool. The motor is typically controlled by a microcontroller capable of turning the power supply on and off at designated times of the day to filter contaminates from the pool water. This microcontroller is enabled with a communications port whereby it is capable of sending and receiving messages to and from the central controller acting as a HEM HEG via a wired or wireless connection.

Typical pool pumps run anywhere from about 4 hours a day in the winter up to about 24 hours in the summer and may consume about 500 2 000 watts of power daily. Pool pumps are generally run on automatic cleaning and filtration cycles within the variable energy consumption rate system. Running a pool pump during a high or peak demand period will increase the cost of usage as opposed to operating the pool pump in the same manner during a low or non peak demand period. By moving the cleaning and or filtration cycles to a lower demand period cost of energy usage may be reduced. Alternatively the cycles can be operated in a reduced load situation such that some water movement will occur with a reduced filtering effect. Additionally by scheduling the pool pump system to run when other high load usage systems are off instantaneous usage can be reduced which necessarily reduces the total cost.

Pool pump includes a microcontroller with a communications port that is capable of communicating with the central controller . The central controller and the communications port of the microcontroller form a communications path that enables the central controller to drive the pool pump and reduce peak energy consumption on command. There are several ways to accomplish this communication including but not limited to power line carrier PLC also known as power line communication FM AM SSB WiFi ZigBee Radio Broadcast Data System 802.11 802.15.4 etc. For instance the generator can have the following wireless capability 802.11 WiFi FM receiver and 802.15.4 compliant Zigbee radios.

The central controller is configured to receive a signal from an associated DSM module associated utility or other energy provider that includes information regarding current energy usage such as for example the status of the demand period i.e. peak demand period off peak demand period mid peak demand period etc price information duration of demand period and the like. Based on this information the central controller is configured to schedule the operation of the associated pool pump s cleaning and filtration cycles such that the cycles operate primarily during low demand and rate periods.

The central controller may track and manage the usage schedules of other devices in the HAN such as a microwave oven dishwasher HVAC etc. Using this knowledge of the various other devices in a HAN the central controller can schedule the pool pump cleaning and filtration cycles at times when usage of other devices in the HAN is low. For instance the central controller can monitor an HVAC cycle and schedule the pool pump to operate on a mirror image cycle which is opposite to that of the HVAC. According to this method the pool pump may be scheduled to run when the HVAC is OFF and the pool pump may shut OFF when the HVAC is ON thus reducing simultaneous usage particularly in times of peak energy demand. By running the pool pump during reduced usage of other HAN devices the HAN experiences a more flat lined constant energy usage rather than disproportionate intervals of high and low usage that will put a larger load on a HAN.

For homeowners that prefer to only run a pool pump when they are home the homeowner may customize home and away settings that limit the operation of the pool pump to that during the periods that the homeowner is home. For example a homeowner may program the controller to deactivate the pool pump during a specified time that the homeowner will be on vacation. The pool pump may additionally be programmed such that the pump is reactivated at such a time that the pool is ready for use when the homeowner returns.

Similarly a start now setting may be provided enabling a user to start a pool pump s cleaning filtration cycle at any given moment. To ensure the user does not initiate a cycle just prior to or during a peak demand period or another such undesirable moment the central controller can display usage information on a user interface display. If after a user selects the start now option there is no peak demand period in progress or scheduled to interfere with the projected cycle the controller may schedule the pool pump cycle to begin at that time. In the event the central controller identifies an upcoming or present peak demand period the central controller may decide to schedule the cycle for a later time once the peak demand period has passed. Likewise the central controller can be programmed to pause the pool pump cycle in the event a peak demand period occurs mid cycle and the controller can resume the cycle for the remainder of the calculated timeframe at a later time such as at the conclusion of the peak demand period.

A user may additionally input pool pump specifications into the user interface such as pool volume pump flow rate etc. and the central controller may then calculate a projected cycle length based on this information and the desired water turns inputted by a user. Based on this information a user may input a desired time for the pool pump to have finished filtering the pool and the controller can determine the best start time to keep energy consumption down while still having the pool ready at the desired time.

In addition to scheduling the pool pump to avoid periods of peak demand for reducing peak energy costs the central controller may further reduce the pool pump energy consumption load by switching to a low flow condition to minimize current draw. A low flow condition is evidenced by a reduction in the flow rate of water to from the pool pump. Reducing the volume of water flowing through the system is a result of operating the pool pump at a lower speed. This will result in a reduction in current draw by the pool pump in turn resulting in reduced power consumption. According to one embodiment best illustrated in a bypass valve is implemented in a parallel connection with the pool pump therein bypassing the pool pump . This method reduces flow through the downstream system of piping and filtration media since a portion of the water inflow circulates only through the pool pump and does not re enter the flow downstream thereby reducing the energy consumed by the pool pump system. The valve can be controlled by a secondary controller or similar controller device including the central controller. Essentially the pump can be controlled such that a specific wattage is consumed. By having a secondary controller the bypass valve can be independently controlled when required. As mentioned earlier when the volume of water discharging from the pool pump and flowing through the downstream system is reduced the system pressure drop is reduced causing the pump to consume less power. Water is pumped through the system from the pool pump to the filtration unit and returned back to the pool pump from the pool by the pressure differential generated by the pool pump having an integral motor. With the bypass valve in in the closed position all of the water coming in from the pool to the pump is circulated through the filtration unit. With valve in a partially closed or fully open position water that enters the pool pump Q will be diverted in a circular loop Q and only a portion of the total flow will pass through the filtration unit Q. As illustrated in Q Q Q.

As illustrated in a control valve may be provided in the pool pump system at the pump discharge to throttle flow. Depending on the signal received from the central controller or a similar secondary control mechanism the control valve will rotate opened or closed to a particular degree. The control valve can be a butterfly type valve or other valve known and used in the art. Butterfly valves are used to isolate or regulate flow having a disk that may be turned to block the flow passageway in various degrees. As the flow is diminished due to increased flow restriction power consumption is also reduced. It is to be noted that care should be exercised as to not completely block the flow causing the pump to dead head and overheat.

Another means of reducing flow includes adjusting the speed of the motor driving the pump as a way of reducing energy consumption. The method of reducing the motor speed should be engineered in a particular manner to ensure the energy consumption and pump curves remain compatible for efficient flow.

Additionally or in the alternative as best illustrated in a multi stage pump may be provided that includes multiple flow conditions triggered by the central controller in response to a peak demand signal from the DSM. As one example for illustration purposes but not limited in scope in response to a peak demand signal the controller can switch the pump from a high flow condition to a low flow thus proportionally reducing the energy consumed during the peak demand period without completely pausing or postponing a pool pump filtration cycle.

The filter may alternatively be bypassed completely to reduce energy consumption during a peak demand period as illustrated in . In response to a signal from the central controller indicative of a peak demand period the bypass valve will close and control valve will open concurrently which will cause the water to bypass the filtration system and return the water directly to the pool from pump . Likewise these valves can be modulated in unison to provide various percentages of filtration by lessening the total flow through the filtration medium if desired. In turn the current draw of the pool pump motor is reduced while still allowing the maintenance of water circulation albeit without filtering capability during a peak demand response event. The pressure drop through the filtration media may be significant which greatly reduces the head requirements and subsequently the power consumption of the pool pump motor.

According to another aspect the central controller may additionally or alternatively include a scheduling algorithm that enables a user to program and adjust a schedule for a pool pump in the user s home energy management system. This scheduling algorithm is configured to provide the user with one or more graphical user interfaces GUI on a display device that the user may use to program and adjust the pool pump schedule. The user may schedule for example pool pump on off times runtime length power level and or pump speeds in the case of pool pumps with variable pump speeds. The algorithm may provide multiple variations of the graphical user interfaces depending on the nature of display devices employed. For example the algorithm may provide a different GUI for a user s mobile phone computer screen touch screen display television widget and the like. Accordingly a user may implement a number of devices to remotely program a pool pump allowing a user increased opportunities to save on energy consumption and cost. This provides a user the freedom to interact with the pool pump schedule without having to be standing physically in close proximity of the unit or even be at home.

Upon receiving a signal of an upcoming or present peak demand period from the DSM the central controller may present this information to a homeowner via the user interface on the display to alert a user as to the high demand period and possible cost implications of running the pool pump during this peak demand period. Based on this information the user can determine what functions of the pool pump they want to limit postpone or cancel during the period of increased rate. Since pool pumps tend to run for around 8 10 hours a day a user may implement the proposed algorithm via the GUI of a display device to set the limitations that the pump may not run between the hours of for example 3 pm 6 pm or 10 am 12 pm. The user may also set preferences for times of the day night to operate the pump such as at night when energy rates are low. Once a user programs a particular schedule for an associated pool pump the central controller for operates the pool pump according to the set schedule. The central controller transmits the programmed on off times and or pump speeds to the microcontroller of the pool pump in order to control the pump s operation.

Minimizing the cost difference between energy management and non energy management devices makes it easier for utilities to provide rebates and other incentives for consumers to switch to energy management devices. If features provided on energy management devices make sense and are well communicated to consumers consumers will be more likely to use them thus reducing energy demand during a peak consumption period and saving energy. Additionally providing consumers with energy management information visually will make it less likely for a user to call for service because they think the device is broken when it will not do what they want.

The invention has been described with reference to the preferred embodiments. Obviously modifications and alterations will occur to others upon reading and understanding the preceding detailed description. It is intended that the invention be construed as including all such modifications and alterations.

