---

title: Decoding digital information included in a hand-formed expression
abstract: Embodiments include a method, a manual device, a handheld manual device, a handheld writing device, a system, and an apparatus. An embodiment provides a device. The device includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a hand-formed analog expression marked on a surface by a handheld writing device. The device also includes a translator circuit operable to decode the digital information. The device further includes a correlation circuit operable to generate a signal indicative of the decoded digital information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08897605&OS=08897605&RS=08897605
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08897605
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110117
---
For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION ENCODED IN A FORMED EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen B. Isaac Cohen Ed Harlow Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien and Mark A. Malamud as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 603 332 filed Nov. 20 2006.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled INCLUDING CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION WITH A FORMED EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen B. Isaac Cohen Ed Harlow Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien and Mark A. Malamud as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 603 289 filed Nov. 20 2006 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 826 687 on Nov. 2 2010.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled VERIFYING A WRITTEN EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen B. Isaac Cohen Ed Harlow Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien and Mark A. Malamud as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 603 275 filed Nov. 20 2006.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled INCLUDING ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION IN A MANUAL EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen B. Isaac Cohen Ed Harlow Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien and Mark A. Malamud as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 603 334 filed Nov. 20 2006.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled INFORMATION ENCODED IN AN EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen B. Isaac Cohen Ed Harlow Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien and Mark A. Malamud as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 603 336 filed Nov. 20 2006.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled ELECTRONIC ACQUISITION OF A HAND FORMED EXPRESSION AND A CONTEXT OF THE EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 083 567 filed Mar. 18 2005.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled ELECTRONIC ACQUISITION OF A HAND FORMED EXPRESSION AND A CONTEXT OF THE EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 580 217 filed Oct. 11 2006.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled ELECTRONIC ACQUISITION OF A HAND FORMED EXPRESSION AND A CONTEXT OF THE EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 580 218 filed Oct. 11 2006.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled ELECTRONIC ASSOCIATION OF A USER EXPRESSION AND A CONTEXT OF THE EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 114 245 filed Apr. 25 2005.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled ACQUISITION OF A USER EXPRESSION AND A CONTEXT OF THE EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 097 977 filed Mar. 31 2005.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled ACQUISITION OF A USER EXPRESSION AND AN ENVIRONMENT OF THE EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 097 980 filed Mar. 31 2005.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled PERFORMING AN ACTION WITH RESPECT TO A HAND FORMED EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 137 716 filed May 25 2005.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled PERFORMING AN ACTION WITH RESPECT TO A HAND FORMED EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 137 694 filed May 25 2005.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled OUTPUTTING A SAVED HAND FORMED EXPRESSION naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 137 687 filed May 25 2005.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled ARTICLE HAVING A WRITING PORTION AND PREFORMED IDENTIFIERS naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 167 072 filed Jun. 24 2005.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled MACHINE DIFFERENTIABLE IDENTIFIERS HAVING A COMMONLY ACCEPTED MEANING naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 166 780 filed Jun. 24 2005.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled HANDWRITING REGIONS KEYED TO A DATA RECEPTOR naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 166 035 filed Jun. 24 2005.

For purposes of the USPTO extra statutory requirements the present application constitutes a continuation in part of United States patent application entitled FORMS FOR COMPLETION WITH AN ELECTRONIC WRITING DEVICE naming Alexander J. Cohen Edward K. Y. Jung Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord Mark A. Malamud and John D. Rinaldo Jr. as inventors U.S. application Ser. No. 11 167 058 filed Jun. 24 2005.

All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

An embodiment provides a manual device operable in a context. The manual device includes a writing element operable to form a mark on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. The manual device also includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating the formation of the mark. In an alternative embodiment the manual device includes a reservoir configured to contain a supply of a marking substance. In another alternative embodiment the manual device includes a memory configurable by file that includes at least one instance of the context of the manual device and a code indicative of the context of the manual device. In a further embodiment the manual device includes an image device operable to capture an aspect of the surface. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a manual device operable in a context. The manual device includes a body and a writing instrument having an electronically driven printhead operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of at least a portion of the body over the surface. The manual device also includes a sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to a context of the manual device. The manual device further includes a controller operable to encode the information corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating a discharge of the marking substance from the electronically driven printhead. In an alternative embodiment the manual device further includes a reservoir configured to contain a supply of the marking substance. In another alternative embodiment the manual device further includes a memory configurable by file that includes at least one instance of a context of the manual device and a code useable by the controller and corresponding to the context of the manual device. In a further alternative embodiment the manual device further includes an imaging device operable to capture an aspect of the surface. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a method. The method includes acquiring information corresponding to a context of a manual device having a writing element. The method also includes marking a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. The method further includes encoding information corresponding to a context of the manual device by regulating the marking of the surface. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a manual device operable in a context. The manual device includes means for acquiring information corresponding to the context of the manual device having a writing element. The manual device also includes means for marking a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. The manual device further includes means for encoding information corresponding to a context of the manual device by regulating the marking of the surface. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides an apparatus. The apparatus includes a writing element having a first portion operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element over the surface and a second portion operable to discharge a second marking substance on the surface in response to a controller. The apparatus also includes the controller operable to encode information corresponding to a context of the apparatus by regulating the discharge of the second marking substance. In an alternative embodiment the apparatus further includes a sensor operable to acquire the information corresponding to a context of the apparatus. In another alternative embodiment the apparatus includes a sensor operable to acquire and transmit the information corresponding to a context of the apparatus. In a further alternative embodiment the apparatus includes an imaging device operable to capture an aspect of the surface. In an alternative embodiment the apparatus includes a reservoir configured to contain a supply at least one of the first marking substance and or the second marking substance. In another alternative embodiment the apparatus includes a memory configurable by file that includes at least one instance of a context and a code indicative of the context. In addition to the foregoing other apparatus embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a method. The method includes acquiring information corresponding to a context of a handheld writing device having at least two electronically driven printheads. The method also includes discharging a marking substance from a first electronically driven printhead of the at least two electronically driven printheads in response to a movement of the handheld writing device vis vis a surface. The method further includes encoding the information corresponding to a context of the handheld writing device by regulating a discharge of a second marking substance from a second electronically driven printhead of the at least two electronically driven printheads. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a handheld writing device operable in a context. The device includes means for acquiring information corresponding to a context of the handheld writing device having at least two electronically driven printheads. The handheld writing device also includes means for discharging a marking substance from a first electronically driven printhead of the at least two electronically driven printheads in response to a movement of the handheld writing device vis vis a surface. The handheld writing device further includes means for encoding the information corresponding to a context of the handheld writing device by regulating the discharge of a second marking substance from a second electronically driven printhead of the at least two electronically driven printheads. In addition to the foregoing other handheld writing device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a device. The device includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a hand formed analog expression marked on a surface by a handheld writing device. The device also includes a translator circuit operable to decode the digital information. The device further includes a correlation circuit operable to generate a signal indicative of the decoded digital information. In an alternative embodiment the device includes a display operable to broadcast a human viewable image corresponding to the digital information. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a device. The device includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a hand formed expression formed on a surface by a handheld writing device. The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was formed on the surface. The device also includes a translator circuit operable to decode the digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was formed on the surface. The device further includes a correlation circuit operable to generate a signal indicative of the environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was formed on the surface. In an alternative embodiment the device includes a memory configurable by a file that includes at least one correlation between an instance of encoded digital information and an environment of the handheld marking device. In another alternative embodiment the device includes a memory configurable by a file that includes at least one user established correlation between an instance of encoded digital information and an environment of the handheld marking device. In a further embodiment the device includes a display operable to broadcast a human viewable image indicative of the environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was formed on the surface. In addition to the foregoing other handheld writing device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes acquiring information encoded in a track formed on a surface by a manual writing device the encoded information corresponding to a context of the manual writing device proximate to when the substance was deposited. The method also includes interpreting the encoded information. The method further includes generating a signal indicative of the context of the manual writing device when the substance was deposited. In an alternative embodiment the method includes broadcasting a human viewable image indicative of the context of the manual writing device when the substance was deposited. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a device. The device includes means for acquiring information encoded in a track formed on a surface by a manual writing device. The encoded information corresponding to a context of the manual writing device when the substance was deposited. The device also includes means for interpreting the encoded information. The device further includes means for generating a signal indicative of the context of the manual writing device when the substance was deposited. In an alternative embodiment the device includes means for broadcasting a human viewable image indicative of the context of the manual writing device when the substance was deposited. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a system. The system includes a manual device that includes a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element upon the surface. The system also includes a sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to an environment of the manual device. The system further includes a verification module operable to determine a correspondence between a first aspect of the environment of the manual device and a second aspect of the environment of the manual device. In an alternative embodiment the system includes an electronic device that includes the sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to an environment of the manual device. In another alternative embodiment the system includes a computing device that includes a storage device configurable by a file that includes data useful in a verification of the environment of the manual device. In a further alternative embodiment the system includes a computing device that includes a storage device configurable by a file that includes data useful in a verification of the environment of the manual device and that is operable to wirelessly communicate with the manual device. In an alternative embodiment the system includes a computing device that includes a storage device configurable by a file that includes data useful in a verification of the environment of the manual device and that includes the sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to the environment of the manual device. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes acquiring information corresponding to an environment of a device having a marking element. The method also includes forming a mark on a surface corresponding to a manual movement of the marking element upon the surface. The method further includes determining a correspondence between first aspect of the environment of the device and a second aspect of the environment of the device. In an alternative embodiment the method includes configuring a storage device in response to a file that includes data useful in verification of the environment of the manual device. In another embodiment the method includes controlling the forming a mark on a surface corresponding to a manual movement of the marking element upon the surface at least partially in response to the determining a correspondence between a first aspect of the environment of the device and a second aspect of the environment of the device. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a device. The device includes means for acquiring information corresponding to an environment of the device. The device also includes means for forming a mark on a surface corresponding to a manual movement of the marking element upon the surface. The device further includes means for determining a correspondence between first aspect of the environment of the device and a second aspect of the environment of the device. In an alternative embodiment the device includes means for configuring a storage device in response to a file that includes data useful in verification of the environment of the manual device.

A further embodiment provides a system. The system includes a manual device. The manual device includes a first writing element operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a manual movement of the first writing element upon the surface. The manual device also includes a second writing element operable to discharge a second marking substance on the surface in response to a controller. The controller is operable to encode information corresponding to an environment of the manual device by regulating a discharge of the second marking substance. The system also includes a sensor operable to acquire data indicative of an environment of the manual device. In an alternative embodiment the system includes an electronic device including the sensor operable to acquire data indicative of an environment of the manual device. In another alternative embodiment the system includes an electronic device operable to wirelessly communicate with the manual device and including the sensor operable to acquire data indicative of an environment of the manual device. In a further embodiment the system includes an electronic device including the sensor operable to acquire data indicative of an environment of the manual device and including a storage device configurable by a file that includes data useful in characterizing the environment of the manual device. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes discharging a first marking substance from an electronic printhead of a device and onto a surface in response to a first manual movement of the device. The method also includes including information corresponding to an environment of the device by regulating the discharging of the first marking substance on the surface. The method further includes discharging a second marking substance from a writing element of the device and onto the surface in response to a second manual movement of the device. In a further embodiment the method includes acquiring data indicative of an environment of the manual device. In an alternative embodiment the method further includes acquiring data indicative of an environment of the manual device.

Another embodiment provides a device. The device includes means for discharging from an electronic printhead of the device a first marking substance on a surface in response to a first manual movement of the device. The device also includes means for including information corresponding to an environment of the device by regulating the discharging of the first marking substance on the surface. The device further includes means for discharging from a writing element of the device a second marking substance on the surface in response to a second manual movement of the device. In an alternative embodiment the device further includes means for acquiring data indicative of an environment of the manual device. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment provides a device. The device includes a writing element operable to form a mark on a surface corresponding to a movement of the writing element over the surface. The device also includes a controller operable to digitally encode information in the mark. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method. The method includes forming a mark representing a first information on a surface. The method also includes regulating the formation of the mark to include a second information. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a device. The device includes means for forming a mark representing a first information on a surface corresponding to a movement of an electronic writing element over the surface. The device also includes means for regulating the formation of the mark to include a second information. In addition to the foregoing other device embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a number of switches and buttons illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a suitable interface . Input devices may further include a touch sensitive display screen with suitable input detection circuitry . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface and a physical hardware keyboard not shown . In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker .

Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are exemplary and other components and means of establishing communications links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based and or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and is coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional element may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information and a camera capturing and saving an image.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art. In an embodiment an information store may include a computer storage media. In a further embodiment an information store may include a group of digital information storage devices. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory device.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes to non removable non volatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

In the description that follows certain embodiments may be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices such as the computing device of . As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains them at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures in which data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while an embodiment is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

Embodiments may be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing devices and computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and configurations that may be suitable for use with an embodiment include but are not limited to personal computers handheld or laptop devices personal digital assistants multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network minicomputers server computers game server computers web server computers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

Embodiments may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An embodiment may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

In an embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. For example the writing element may discharge the marking substance in response to a tip or nozzle not shown of the writing element being dragged across the surface in a manner similar to a pen discharging ink as its tip is dragged across a surface in forming a handwritten expression. In another embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to initiate a visible marking action on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. A visible marking action may include a discharge of a visible marking fluid such as an ink. A visible marking action may include frictionally scraping a marking substance from the writing element in a manner similar to dragging a handheld instrument that includes pencil lead across the surface. In a further embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to discharge at least one of ink graphite paint particles nanoparticles and or quantum dots marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. For example the writing element may include operability to discharge the microscopic structure or structures that include particles nanoparticles and or quantum dots. In an embodiment a nozzle not shown of the writing element may include operability to discharge one or more quantum dots selected by the controller to encode information corresponding to the context of the manual device . For example the nozzle operable to discharge the quantum dots may be a nozzle different from the nozzle operable to discharge the marking substance. In another example a single nozzle of the writing element may include operability to discharge both the quantum dots and the marking substance.

In an embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to discharge at least one of a visible and or an invisible marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. In another embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to discharge a fluorescent substance such as an ink or a marker tag on the surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. In a further embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element including at least one of a tip an application element an inkjet head a nozzle an inkjet nozzle and or a nib and being operable to form a mark on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface.

In an embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to at least one of emit dispose impart release eject and or flow a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. In another embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to discharge a first instance of a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface and to discharge a second instance of the marking substance on the surface in response to the controller. In a further embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to form a mark on at least one of a skin layer paper metal plastic and or composite surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface.

In an embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to form a mark on a surface of at least one of a container a package a living body a human body and or an object in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. In another embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to form a mark on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface the mark including a single mark and or a succession of marks left by a passage of the writing element. In a further embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to form a track on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. In another embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to cause a thermal marking process on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. In a further embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to cause a marking interaction with a media in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the media.

In an embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating a discharge of a marking substance . In another embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating a discharge of at least one of a visible and or invisible marking substance. In a further embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to at least one of time location global position temperature acceleration of the writing element user identification and or user data context of the manual device by regulating a discharge of a marking substance.

In an embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to at least one of an identification of a human being proximate to the manual device and or an identification of a physical object for example see a physical object at infra. proximate to manual device by regulating a discharge of a marking substance. In another embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating at least one of volume continuity color and or pattern of a discharge of a marking substance. In a further embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating a width of a line formed on the surface by a discharge of a marking substance.

In an embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating an orthogonal aspect of the mark relative to a movement of the writing element . In another embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating at least one of amplitude frequency differential shift and or parameter of an orthogonal formation of the mark relative to a movement of the writing element. In a further embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating the formation of the mark the regulated formation corresponding to a user unique movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. For example an ancillary module may include an accelerometer and an operability to distinguish hand driven acceleration patterns imparted to the manual device from among at least two people.

In an embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating the formation of the mark . The regulated formed mark being machine differentiatable from a user movement formation of the writing element with respect to the surface. For example in an embodiment the mark is formed such that a computer implemented reader is able to distinguish and or differentiate between a handwritten expression formed by the mark and the encoded information in the mark corresponding to the context. In another embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information in a machine readable form and corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating the formation of the mark. In a further embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information in a human readable form and corresponding to the context of the manual device by regulating the formation of the mark. For example the information encoded in the mark may include a human readable text indicating an aspect of the context. For example a time the mark was formed may be indicated in small typeface within the mark. In such an embodiment the mark may appear as a conventional handwritten expression when viewed from a normal reading distance but on a close view or when viewed through magnification the small typeface indicating the time becomes visible.

In an embodiment the manual device further includes a receiver operable to acquire the information corresponding to the context of the manual device. The receiver is illustrated as a receiver or transceiver. In another embodiment the receiver operable to acquire the information corresponding to the context of the manual device may include a receiver operable to directly sense the information corresponding to the context of the manual device. In a further embodiment the receiver operable to acquire the information corresponding to the context of the manual device may further include a receiver operable to receive information sent by a transmitting sensor the received information corresponding to the context of the manual device.

In an embodiment the manual device may further include a sensor operable to acquire the information corresponding to the context of the manual device. In another embodiment the sensor operable to acquire the information corresponding to the context of the manual device further includes a sensor operable to sense the information corresponding to the context of the manual device. In a further embodiment the sensor operable to acquire the information corresponding to the context of the manual device further includes a sensor operable to receive information corresponding to the context of the manual device. For example the sensor may receive information corresponding to the context of the manual device from an external transmitting sensor . In another embodiment the sensor operable to acquire the information corresponding to the context of the manual device further includes a sensor operable to capture information corresponding to a visual aspect of the surface. In a further embodiment the sensor operable to acquire and transmit the information corresponding to the context of the manual device further includes a sensor operable to capture information corresponding to an acoustical aspect of the surface.

In an embodiment the manual device further includes a reservoir configured to contain a supply of a marking substance. In another embodiment the manual device further includes a memory configurable by file that includes at least one instance of the context of the manual device and a code indicative of the context of the manual marking device. In a further embodiment the manual device further includes an image device operable to capture an aspect of the surface.

In use the writing element creating the mark such as for example a hand formed expression in the English language will generally move in a left to right direction as illustrated by the General Movement and will include specific small hand driven movements generally orthogonal to the General Movement. In another language or instance a hand formed expression may include a different general movement such as in a right to left direction. In an embodiment a human user may grip or hold the manual device in their hand and move the writing element across a surface such as a piece of paper making incremental movements in various directions as one does when handwriting but generally moving in the Generalized Movement direction as indicated in to form the mark on the surface. At one or more times during the Generalized Movement or thereafter the controller causes information corresponding to the context to be encoded in the mark such as the encoded information and or the encoded information .

In an embodiment the body further includes a generally elongated body. In another embodiment the body further includes a generally elongated body having a graspable portion. In a further embodiment the body further includes a generally elongated body having a hand graspable portion .

In an embodiment the writing instrument having an electronically driven printhead further includes a writing instrument having an electronically driven printhead with a nozzle operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface . In another embodiment the writing instrument having an electronically driven printhead further includes a writing instrument having an electronically driven printhead with at least two nozzles each respectively operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of at least a portion of the body over the surface a second nozzle is not shown .

In an embodiment the sensor further includes a sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to a user of the manual device . In another embodiment the sensor further includes a sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to an environmental context of the manual device. In a further embodiment the manual device further includes a reservoir configured to contain a supply of the marking substance. In another embodiment the manual device further includes a memory configurable by file that includes at least one instance of a context of the manual device and a code useable by the controller and corresponding to the context of the manual device. In a further embodiment the manual device further includes an imaging device operable to capture an aspect of the surface .

In an alternative embodiment the means includes means for discharging from the writing element a marking substance onto a surface in response to a movement of the writing element with respect to the surface. In a further embodiment the means includes means for encoding information corresponding to a context of the manual device by regulating a discharge of a marking substance.

In an embodiment the writing element further includes a first writing portion A having a first orifice operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element over the surface. The writing element also includes a second writing portion B having a second orifice operable discharge a second marking substance on the surface in response to a controller the orifices are not shown . For example a single writing element may include two orifices each respectively operable to discharge a marking substance. In another embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element having a first portion operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element over the surface and a second portion operable discharge a second marking substance on the surface in response to a controller. The first portion of a writing element is proximate to the second portion of the writing element the proximate first and second discharging portions are not shown . In another embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element having a first portion operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element over the surface and a second portion operable discharge a second marking substance on the surface in response to a controller. The first portion of a writing element is spaced apart from the second portion of the writing element. illustrates an embodiment of the spaced apart configuration where the first portion of the writing element A is located at an end of a longitudinal body in a manner similar to a pen pencil or other common writing instrument. The second portion B of the writing element is located at another or opposing end of the longitudinal body in a manner similar to an eraser end of a pencil. In a further embodiment the device may be described as including two spaced apart writing elements a writing element A having an orifice operable to discharge a first marking and a writing element B having an orifice operable to discharge a second marking substance the orifices are not shown .

In operation of an embodiment a human user may grip or hold the apparatus in a hand and with a hand movement move the apparatus and the first portion A of the writing element across the surface in a manner similar to writing on a sheet of paper with a pen. The first marking substance is deposited on the surface in response to the movement. For example the user may guide the first portion of the writing element to across the surface in a manner to form a mark representative of a word to create a line and or to draw an object on the surface. The human user may stop writing with the first portion of the writing element turn the apparatus end for end and make a movement of the second portion B with respect to the surface. For example the user may move the second portion across the surface in a swiping movement to discharge the second marking substance . The controller encodes information corresponding to a context of the apparatus by regulating the discharge of the second marking substance. illustrates an aspect of the discharge of the second marking substance where the controller encodes information corresponding to a context of the apparatus by regulating the discharge of the second marking substance to form a bar code pattern on the surface illustrated as the one dimensional bar code B. By way of further example the user may move the second portion against the surface such as in a tapping movement and the controller encodes information corresponding to a context of the apparatus by regulating the discharge the second marking substance in a form of one or more microparticles A.

In an embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element having a first portion A operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element over the surface and a second portion B operable discharge a second marking substance on the surface in response to a controller . The second marking substance is at least substantially similar to the first marking substance. In another embodiment the writing further includes a writing element having a first portion operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element over the surface and a second portion operable discharge a second marking substance on the surface. The second marking substance is at least substantially dissimilar to the first marking substance. In a further embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element having a first portion operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element over the surface and a second portion operable discharge a second marking substance on the surface in response to a controller. The second marking substance is a same marking substance as the first marking substance.

In an embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element having a first portion A operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element over the surface and a second portion B operable discharge a second marking substance on the surface in response to a controller . The second marking substance includes at least one of visible and or invisible marking substance. In another embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element having a first portion operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element over the surface and a second portion operable discharge a second marking substance on the surface in response to a controller. The second marking substance includes at least one of ink graphite paint particles nanoparticles and or quantum dots. In a further embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element having a first portion operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element over the surface and a second portion operable discharge in response to a controller a second marking substance in two dimensions on the surface. For example discharging a marking substance in two dimensions on the surface may include forming a two dimensional bar code. See a bar code E at infra.

In an embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to a context of the apparatus by regulating the discharge of the second marking substance in a manner that is at least substantially independent of the movement of the writing element over the surface. In another embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to encode information corresponding to a context of the apparatus by regulating an orthogonal discharge of the second marking substance relative to a movement of the writing element.

In an embodiment the apparatus further includes a sensor operable to acquire the information corresponding to a context of the apparatus. In another embodiment the apparatus further includes a sensor operable to acquire and transmit the information corresponding to a context of the apparatus. In a further embodiment the apparatus further includes an imaging device operable to capture an aspect of the surface. In another embodiment the apparatus further includes a reservoir configured to contain a supply at least one of the first marking substance and or the second marking substance. In a further embodiment the apparatus includes a memory configurable by file that includes at least one instance of a context of the apparatus and a code indicative of the context of the apparatus.

The device includes an imaging circuit a translator circuit and a correlation circuit . The imaging circuit includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a hand formed expression formed on a surface by a handheld writing device. The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was formed on the surface. The translator circuit includes a translator circuit operable to decode the digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was formed on the surface. The translator circuit may be implemented in hardware software firmware and or a combination thereof. The correlation circuit includes a correlation circuit operable to generate a signal indicative of the environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was formed on the surface.

The device is illustrated in an embodiment where a reader unit is coupled to a body that includes the translator circuit and the correlation unit . In another embodiment of the device these components may be included in a single physical enclosure or at least two physical enclosures.

In an embodiment the imaging circuit further includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a hand formed expression formed by a handheld stylus moving on a surface . The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld stylus when the expression was formed on the surface. In another embodiment the imaging circuit further includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a hand formed expression formed by a substance deposited by a handheld writing device on a surface. The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld device when the substance was deposited on the surface. In a further embodiment the imaging circuit further includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in at least one of a line grid path stroke and or spot hand formed on a surface by a handheld writing device. The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device when the at least one of a line grid path stroke and or spot was formed on the surface.

In an embodiment the imaging circuit further includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in at least one of a line grid path stroke and or spot hand formed by a substance deposited on a surface by a handheld writing device. The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device when the substance was deposited on the surface. In another embodiment the imaging circuit further includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a marking substance deposited on a surface by a handheld writing device. The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device when the marking substance was deposited on the surface. In a further embodiment the imaging circuit further includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in at least one of a visible and or invisible marking substance deposited on a surface by a handheld writing device. The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device when the marking substance was deposited on the surface.

In an embodiment the imaging circuit further includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a fluorescent substance deposited on a surface by a handheld writing device. The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device when the fluorescent substance was deposited on the surface. In another embodiment the imaging circuit further includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a hand formed expression formed on a surface of at least one of a container a package a living body a human body and or an object by a handheld writing device. The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was formed on the surface. In a further embodiment the imaging circuit further includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a hand formed expression formed on at least one of a skin layer paper metal plastic and or composite surface by a handheld writing device. The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was formed on the surface.

In an embodiment the imaging circuit further includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a hand formed expression formed on a surface by a handheld writing device. The digital information corresponding to an environment of the handheld writing device contemporaneous with the formation of the expression on the surface. In a further embodiment the imaging circuit further includes an imaging circuit operable to acquire digital information encoded in a hand formed expression formed on a surface by a handheld writing device. The digital information corresponding to an environment temporarily proximate to when the expression was formed on the surface.

In another embodiment the translator circuit further includes a translator circuit operable to decode the digital information corresponding to at least one of a user context and or an external context of the handheld writing device when the expression was formed on the surface . In an embodiment the device further includes a memory configurable by a file that includes at least one correlation between an instance of encoded digital information and an environment of the handheld marking device. In a further embodiment the device further includes a memory configurable by a file that includes at least one user established correlation between an instance of encoded digital information and an environment of the handheld marking device. In another embodiment the device further includes a display operable to broadcast a human viewable image indicative of the environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was formed on the surface.

In use of an embodiment the device may be used to read instances of digital information encoded in a hand formed line. In the illustrative embodiment described above the surface includes the hand formed expression 10 01 AM Closed chest incision followed by initials BC. The imaging circuit of the reader unit is used to acquire the digital information encoded in a hand formed expression indicative of the environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was hand formed. The digital information includes the binary information 1010 1100 and other information such as the identification of the person using the instrument to make the hand formed expression not shown . The translator circuit decodes the binary information. The correlation circuit generates a signal indicating that the environment of the handheld writing device when the expression was hand formed includes a time of 10 12 AM and that the person holding the writing instrument was Dr. Smith. In another embodiment the display broadcasts a human viewable image indicating the occurrence time as 10 12 AM and that the person holding the writing instrument was Dr. Smith. A person viewing the display may form an opinion about the accuracy of the hand formed expression and or may inquire further of Dr. Smith about whether Dr. Smith uses the initials BC as a self identifier when preparing patient records.

In an alternative embodiment the exemplary operational flow includes broadcasting a human viewable image indicative of the context of the manual writing device when the substance was deposited .

The manual device includes a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element upon the surface. The sensor and or is operable to acquire information corresponding to an environment of the manual device. The verification module and or is operable to determine a correspondence between a first aspect of the environment of the manual device and a second aspect of the environment of the manual device.

In an alternative embodiment the manual device further includes a handheld manual device including a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element upon the surface. In another embodiment the manual device further includes a handheld electronic writing device including a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element upon the surface. In a further embodiment the manual device further includes a manual device including a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element upon a surface of a body a package and or an object.

In an embodiment the manual device further includes a manual device including a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element upon the surface and a controller operable to regulate the discharge of the marking substance. In an embodiment of the manual device including a controller the manual device further includes a manual device including a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element upon the surface and a controller operable to encode information corresponding to an environment of the manual device by regulating the discharge of the marking substance. In an embodiment of the immediately previous manual device the manual device further includes a manual device including a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element upon the surface. The manual device also further includes a controller operable to acquire a code useful in encoding information corresponding to an environment of the manual device and to encode the information corresponding to an environment of the manual device by regulating the discharge of the marking substance. For example the controller may acquire the code from an information storage device illustrated as a memory and or a memory . In a further embodiment of the manual device including a controller the manual device further includes a manual device including a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element upon the surface. The manual device also further includes a controller operable to inhibit the discharge of the marking substance if a condition is not met. For example a discharge of the marking substance may be inhibited if a correspondence is not found between a sensor acquired user identification and user entered user identification. In another example a discharge of the marking substance may be inhibited if no verification of a user identification occurs. In a further example a discharge of the marking substance may be inhibited if a patient prescription is attempted to be entered in a drug order book by a provider whose sensed identification or self entered identification does not correspond with a predesignated attending physician or provider for the patient. Other conditions may include a marking for a surgical treatment not listed in a predesignated file of treatments or procedures for a patient writing an order for a drug to which the patient is allergic. Another example may include writing a shipping address that does not correspond to a preauthorized shipping address saved in a memory device.

In an embodiment the manual device further includes a manual device including a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element upon the surface. The manual device also includes the sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to an environment of the manual device.

In another embodiment the system further includes an electronic device that includes the sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to an environment of the manual device. In an embodiment the electronic device may include the thin computing device of . In another embodiment the electronic device may include the computing device of . In another embodiment the sensor and or further includes a sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to at least one of time location global position acceleration temperature user identification and or user data environment of the manual device. In a further embodiment the sensor further includes a sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to at least one of a characteristic of a human touching the manual device a characteristic of a human proximate to the manual device and or a characteristic of a physical object proximate to manual device. For example a characteristic may include a name and or identification of a human.

In an embodiment the sensor and or further includes a sensor including an imaging element operable to acquire information corresponding to a visual and or acoustical aspect of the surface . In another embodiment the sensor further includes a sensor operable to acquire information from at least one of a radio frequency identification tag a passive radio frequency identification tag a semi passive radio frequency identification tag and or an active radio frequency identification tag. In a further embodiment the sensor further includes a sensor operable to acquire information from a radio frequency identification device associatable with at least one of a human and or an object . In another embodiment the sensor further includes a sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to an environment of the manual device and wirelessly transmit the acquired information to the manual device .

In an embodiment the manual device further includes a manual device including a writing element operable to discharge a marking substance on a surface in response to a movement of the writing element upon the surface. The manual device also further includes the memory configurable by a file that includes data useful in a verification of the environment of the manual device. In another embodiment the manual device surface further includes a manual device including a the memory configurable by a file that includes data useful in a verification of the environment of the manual device. The manual device also further includes the sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to the environment of the manual device.

In an embodiment the system further includes a computing device that includes the memory configurable by a file that includes data useful in a verification of the environment of the manual device . The computing device is operable to communicate wirelessly with the manual device. The computing device further includes the sensor operable to acquire information corresponding to the environment of the manual device. In an embodiment the computing device may include the thin computing device of . In another embodiment the computing device may include the computing device of .

In an embodiment the storage device and or further includes a storage device configurable by a file that includes at least one instance of an aspect of the environment of the manual device and a code indicative of the environment of the manual marking device. In another embodiment the storage device further includes a storage device configurable by a file that includes at least one instance of medical information corresponding to a patient. In a further embodiment the storage device further includes a storage device configurable by a patient medical information file that includes at least one instance of an identification of an attending physician an identification of an ancillary physician a treatment plan a patient prescription and or a medical image corresponding to the patient. In another embodiment the storage device further includes a storage device configurable by a file that includes at least one instance of a correspondence of a radio frequency identification device with a human and or with an object associatable with the radio frequency identification device. In a further embodiment the storage device further includes a storage device configurable by a file that includes data useful in a verification of a book a shipping container a package and or an object that includes the surface.

In an embodiment the verification module and or further includes a verification module operable to authenticate a user by determining a correspondence between a user entered identification aspect of the environment and a sensor acquired information corresponding to a user aspect of the environment of the manual device . In another embodiment the verification module further includes a verification module operable to determine a correspondence between an aspect of the surface bearing a mark formed by the discharge of the marking substance upon the surface in response to a movement of the writing element with data in a file that includes an indication of a predetermined surface to be marked by the manual device. For example a surgeon may use the manual device to form a presurgery mark on a skin surface over a patient s right kidney for removal. The verification module determines a correspondence between the surgeon s presurgery mark and data in a file indicating that a skin surface over the patient s left kidney is to be marked for removal of the left kidney. In this example a no verification notification may be provided by the system indicative that a wrong kidney was marked for removal. In a further embodiment the verification module further includes a verification module operable to determine a correspondence between an aspect of the surface and information embodied in a mark formed on the surface by the manual marking device.

The first writing element is operable to discharge a first marking substance on a surface in response to a manual movement of the first writing element upon the surface. The second writing element is operable to discharge a second marking substance illustrated as at least one of second marking substance and or on the surface in response to the controller . The controller is operable to encode information corresponding to the environment of the manual device by regulating a discharge of the second marking substance. The sensor illustrated as at least one of a sensor and or a sensor is operable to acquire data indicative of an environment of the manual device.

In an embodiment the second writing element further includes a second writing element operable to discharge a second marking substance on the surface in response to a controller and in response to another manual movement. For example the another manual movement of the device may include any manual movement. A manual movement may include a tap a swipe and or a turning the manual device over and swiping the two dimensional marker portion across the surface.

In an embodiment the sensor further includes a sensor operable to acquire data indicative of at least one of time location global position acceleration temperature user identification and or user data. In another embodiment the sensor further includes a sensor operable to acquire data indicative of the environment of the manual device . The sensor also includes a memory configurable by a file that includes data useful in characterizing the environment of the manual device.

In an embodiment the system includes an electronic device that includes the sensor operable to acquire data indicative of an environment of the manual device . In another embodiment the electronic device may include the thin computing device of . In a further embodiment the electronic device may include the computing device of . In another embodiment the system includes an electronic device operable to wirelessly communicate with the manual device. This electronic device includes the sensor operable to acquire data indicative of an environment of the manual device. In a further embodiment the system includes an electronic device that includes the sensor operable to acquire data indicative of an environment of the manual device. This electronic device also includes the memory configurable by a file that includes data useful in characterizing the environment of the manual device .

In an embodiment the manual device further includes the sensor operable to acquire data indicative of an environment of the manual device. In another embodiment the manual device includes the sensor operable to acquire data indicative of an environment of the manual device and further includes the memory configurable by a file that includes data useful in characterizing the environment of the manual device. In a further embodiment the manual device includes a first writing element spaced apart from a second writing element . In another embodiment the manual device includes a first writing element proximate to a second writing element.

Returning to and the exemplary setting that includes an exemplary manual device operable in a context . Another embodiment of the exemplary manual device includes a writing element and a controller . The writing element is operable to form a mark on a surface corresponding to a movement of the writing element over the surface. The controller is operable to digitally encode information in the mark.

In an embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to form a human viewable mark on a surface corresponding to a movement of the writing element over the surface. In another embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to form a machine readable mark on a surface corresponding to a movement of the writing element over the surface. In a further embodiment the writing element further includes an electronic writing element operable to form a mark on a surface corresponding to a movement of the writing element over the surface. In another embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to form a mark on a surface corresponding to a manual movement of the writing element over the surface. In a further embodiment the writing element further includes a writing element operable to form a mark on a surface corresponding to a machine caused movement of the writing element over the surface.

In an embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to digitally encode information in the mark . The digitally encoded information including more information than any information represented by the movement of the writing element over the surface. In another embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to digitally encode information in the mark. The encoded information including information other than any information represented by the movement of the writing element over the surface. In a further embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to digitally encode information in the mark by regulating the formation of the mark. The encoded information including information additional to any information represented by the movement of the writing element over the surface.

In an embodiment the controller operable to digitally encode information in the mark further includes a controller operable to digitally encode information in the mark by regulating the formation of the mark. In a further embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to receive information other than information represented by the movement of the writing element over the surface and to digitally encode the received information in the mark. In another embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to receive the information corresponding to an aspect of the surface and to digitally encode the received information in the mark by regulating the formation of the mark.

In an embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to digitally encode contextual information in the mark . In another embodiment the controller further includes a controller operable to digitally encode information in the mark formed on a surface of a patient. The information corresponding to at least one of a patient information and or a patient history.

In an alternative embodiment the means include means for forming an analog mark expressing a first information on a surface corresponding to a movement of an electronic writing element over the surface. In another alternative embodiment the means include means for regulating the formation of the mark to include a second digitally expressed information.

It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the various components and elements disclosed herein and in the drawings as well as the various steps and substeps disclosed herein and in the drawings may be incorporated together in different combinations to implement embodiments and enhance possible benefits and advantages. The exemplary system apparatus and device embodiment disclosed herein including and along with other components devices know how skill and techniques that are known in the art may be individually or in a combination to implement and or practice one or more methods and process illustrated in and . It is to be understood that the methods and processes can be incorporated in one or more different types of computer program products with a carrier medium having program instructions encoded thereon. However it is to be further understood by those skilled in the art that other systems apparatus and technology may be used to implement and practice such methods and processes.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof unless otherwise indicated. A particular block diagram operation diagram flowchart illustration environment and or example should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in certain instances one or more elements of an environment may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing media include but are not limited to the following recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD ROMs digital tape and computer memory and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links using TDM or IP based communication links e.g. packet links .

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. .

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

