---

title: Wireless input device with a power saving system
abstract: An input device with a power saving system is provided for reducing the power consumption of the input device when the input device is at rest. The input device may include a sensor, a rest mode switch, control logic and a current controller. The sensor may be configured to obtain an image data in response to a light incident on the sensor. The rest mode switch may be configured to set the input device to various levels of rest modes when it is inactive. The control logic may be coupled to the rest mode switch and the sensor. The control logic may be configured to set the input device to process a portion of the image data on the sensor array during a wake up detection operation when the input device is at rest. The current controller may be coupled to the control logic and the sensor and configured to control the current supply limited to a section of the sensor array containing the portion of image data that is being processed by the input device during the wake up detection operation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504858&OS=08504858&RS=08504858
owner: Avago Technologies General IP (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
number: 08504858
owner_city: 
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20110202
---
Wireless optical input devices are well known in the art. A typical optical input device uses a light source to illuminate a portion of a navigation surface and a sensor to generate digital images from the light that is reflected off the navigation surface. In general an optical input device tracks the relative movement between a navigation surface and the input device multiple frames of digital image data of the illuminated navigation surface are captured by the sensor and successive digital images are subsequently processed and further translated as a cursor movement on the input device.

As the wireless input devices are becoming more popular power saving has become one of the critical considerations in the design of an energy efficient wireless input device. It is desired to reduce the power consumption of a wireless input device during operation in order to increase the battery life of the device. Additionally prolonging the battery life may reduce the adverse impact on the environment associated with the disposal of used batteries.

One of the methods that is commonly adopted to improve the energy efficiency of a wireless input device is to put the input device into a rest mode when it is inactive or stays idle for a predetermined period of time. When an input device is in the active mode the input device operates at full operational capacity. On the other hand when the device is in a rest mode portions of the device circuitry are normally rendered inactive thus reducing the power consumption. However in a conventional design even when the input device is in the rest mode a wake up detector on the input device may still be in operation whereby the wake up detector is configured to trigger the input device to periodically check the sensor in order to monitor for movement and immediately wake up the input device if movement is detected. Hence the input device is periodically being switched to active mode even though it is in an idle state. As a result much of the supposedly inactivated device circuitry is being activated during the wake up detection operation. Therefore the input device is actually consuming considerable battery power even though it is in a rest mode while inactive.

In general during a typical wake up detection operation the whole image data on the sensor array may be processed by the input device during the motion detection. However since the computed motion data would not be outputted by the sensor to facilitate any navigation operation during a wake up detection operation. Therefore an accurate motion data computation is actually not critical and may be unnecessary during the wake up detection operation. Accordingly there is no need to process the whole image data on the sensor array during waking up detection operation and consuming battery power unnecessarily.

Throughout the description and figures similar reference numbers may be used to identify similar elements.

With reference to the wireless input device may include a power saving system . The power saving system is facilitated by a combination of the control logic the rest mode switch and the current controller operably integrated to reduce the power consumption on the wireless input device . In one embodiment the power saving system may be configured to reduce the power consumption when the input device is at rest or idle for a predetermined period of time. The wireless input device may include a sensor having a sensor array configured to capture image data of a navigation surface . A rest mode switch configured to set the input device to various levels of rest modes such as a light rest mode or a deep rest mode when the wireless input device is inactive. The wireless input device may further comprise control logic coupled to the rest mode switch and current controller . The wireless input device may comprise a wake up detector operable configured to periodically check for motion data when the input device is at rest. The wireless input device may further include a light source configured to illuminate the navigation surface and a navigation engine configured to provide a navigation operation.

Generally when a wireless input device is inactive or at rest the device may be set to a rest mode after it remains idle for a predetermined period of time. However when the device is in rest mode a wake up detection operation may be triggered by a wake up detector to periodically check for any motion on the wireless input device . The wake up detector may be configured to immediately switch the input device back to a full run mode or a full navigation mode once a motion has been detected. Generally in typical wake up detection operation the whole image data captured on the sensor may be processed by the wireless input device in order to calculate motion data. In other words the wireless input device may be periodically triggered by the wake up detector to operate almost as if the device is at a full working mode of operation for each wake up detection cycle. However during a wake up detection operation any motion data detected would not be output by the sensor to facilitate any navigation operation. Therefore an accurate motion data calculation is actually not critical for the wake up detection operation. Thus during the wake up detection operation it may be unnecessary to process the image data from the entire sensor array for the motion calculation when the input device is in the rest mode of operation. Accordingly it may not be necessary to process the image data from the entire sensor array just for the purpose of wake up detection which may consume more battery power than necessary.

In one embodiment as shown in the wireless input device may include a power saving system that comprises a sensor control logic a rest mode switch and a current controller . The sensor may include a sensor array configured to receive light reflected from the navigation surface . The sensor array may include a plurality of photo sensitive elements not shown configured to receive light reflected from the navigation surface and subsequently generate a signal in response to the respective light received. The size of the sensor array may be dependent on the type of application and the performance requirements of the device. For example a wireless input device with an image sensor having a high quality navigation performance may require a 20 20 array or a 30 30 array of photosensitive pixel elements .

In one embodiment the rest mode switch may include logic circuitry having a timer operable to set the wireless input device into various levels of rest modes corresponding to the duration that the wireless input device has been at rest. For example when the input device is at rest for a predetermined period of time the rest mode switch may be triggered to switch the input device to a certain level of rest mode based upon the duration of the inactivity. In one embodiment the rest mode switch is operable to set the wireless input device to a light rest mode when the input device is at rest at an initial stage and next to a deep rest mode as the input device remains at rest after a subsequent interval of time. The rest mode switch may be configured to put the wireless input device into a different level of rest modes for example when the input device is at rest for the first few seconds the wireless input device may be switched to light rest mode but if it still remains inactive continually for a subsequent interval of time the input device may be switched to a deep rest mode as a result. However the length of the inactivity period may vary depending on the application environment. In addition the duration of inactivity and the various degrees of rest modes may vary and also may be programmable by the user depending on the application.

The wireless input device may include control logic coupled to the rest mode switch and the sensor . In one embodiment the control logic may be configured to set the wireless input device to process a portion of the image data on the sensor array during a wake up detection operation when the wireless input device is at rest. Wherein the control logic may be configured to dynamically set the wireless input device to process a predetermined portion of the image data on the sensor array during the wake up detection operation when the wireless input device is set to the light rest mode and subsequently process a substantially smaller portion of image data relative to the predetermined portion of the image data when the wireless input device is set to the deep rest mode next. Consequently when the input device is in a deep rest mode rather than periodically processing the entire image data during the wake up detection operational cycle the control logic may instead trigger the wireless input device to process only a smallest possible portion of the image data for monitoring movement on the wireless input device during the wake up detection operation. In one embodiment the control logic is configured to set the wireless input device to process a substantially smaller portion of image data relative to the predetermined portion of the image data when the input device is subsequently set to the deep rest mode. Hence the wireless input device may be configured to consume less battery power when it is at rest in a deep rest mode .

In one embodiment when a motion interrupt has been reported by the wake up detector the wireless input device may be triggered to use the entire sensor array to output the motion data for an actual navigation operation. In this exemplary embodiment the power saving on the wireless input device may be accomplished under two conditions. First power savings may be achieved by utilizing a shorter signal processing time for both analog and digital core during the wake up detection routine. And second a power savings may be achieved if only a portion of sensor array is activated when the wireless input device is in rest mode.

As shown in control logic circuitry may be integrated as part of a power saving system for saving power by implementing a wake up detection operation only on half of the sensor array . For example the power saving system may include control logic circuitry which comprises a plurality of logic gates for example NAND NOT and NOR gates and control signals such as SELHFRA select half frame or select certain rows REST sensor in rest mode and ROWQ i row feedback of row i signals. Wherein i is the number of row image for processing. The ROW  i is the signal used to continue the row image processing for a subsequent row. ROWQ N is the row feedback of row N. The logic gates SELHFRA select half frame and REST control signals may be added in the array core of the sensor for manipulating the row feedback signal or RF signal. The RF is the signal used to trigger the digital core upon the completion of processing of all row images whereas RDIN represents an active high pulse to initiate a row image processing. RF and ROW i signal could be simplified and represented with the formula SELHFRA ROWQ ROW SELHFRA ROWQ

Referring now to and in one example when the input device is in a rest mode the control logic may be configured to trigger the wake up detector to operate under a half frame wake up detection function. At this point both SELHFRA and REST may be set to HIGH. Hence the shift register of the row control circuitry would stop at row i 1 via signal ROW i . Subsequently the RF would be triggered upon the completion of processing for row i via signal ROWQ i . Therefore only half of the image data or half frame may be processed during the wake up detection operation. Hence the time as well as the power spent in signal processing may be reduced in contrast to a normal operation mode whereby the RF signal will be triggered upon completion of the last row N.

In one embodiment the input device may also include a current controller coupled to the control logic and operable to enable the input device to consume less battery power when it is at rest. The current controller may be configured to limit the current supply to a section of the sensor array containing the portion of image data that is being processed by the wireless input device during the wake up detection operation as described previously. illustrates the biasing of the sensor array core in a normal run mode whereby the biasing voltage is supplied to the whole sensor array such that the entire sensor array N 1 N 1 is enabled. The sensor array biasing block SBB may be a voltage biasing node from the sensor array biasing block.

In one embodiment for enabling power savings when the wireless input device is at rest a sensor array biasing block may be configured to bias current to the sensor array restricted to only the active half frame or certain rows i.e. ROW  to ROW i of the sensor array instead of the entire array as in normal run mode as shown in . illustrates current controller circuitry for enabling power savings during a half frame wake up detection operation while illustrates a waveform of voltage biasing of a sensor array during a normal run mode and a half frame mode by current controller circuitry . Both and are representing the scenario in which the input device is at rest at a predetermined level of rest mode whereby the current controller may be configured to bias the current supply to only the active portion of the sensor array from which the image data are being processed. As shown in in order to limit the sensor array biasing current the current controller circuitry may include two transmission gates txgate  and txgate  PMOS switches sw  and sw  and inverters . The transmission gates and switches are controlled directly by the SELHFRA signal because the current controller is being coupled with the control logic . Therefore when the input device is under a normal run mode the whole sensor array may be biased by SBB via SBB h and SBB h. However when the input device is at rest at a predetermined level of rest mode for example when the current controller is configured to enable only a half frame during a wake up detection operation the biasing voltage for sensor arrays in the inactive half frame i.e. ROW  i 1 to ROW N will be cutoff by pulling SBB h to supply rail VDDAFLT . Hence only the active half frame i.e. ROW  to ROW i remains biased by SBB node via SBB h. Therefore when the input device is at rest only half of the sensor array may be activated during the wake detection operation thus enabling the input device to consume less power when it is at rest.

In one embodiment during the wake up detection the input device is triggered to process only a substantially small portion of the image data when the input device is under a deep rest mode and process a larger portion of the image data when the input device is under a light rest mode instead. The control logic may also be configured to dynamically set the wireless input device to process a predetermined portion of the image data on the sensor array during the wake up detection operation when the input device is set to the light rest mode and next process a substantially smaller portion of image data relative to the predetermined portion of the image data when the wireless input device is subsequently set to the deep rest mode . At block the control logic may trigger the current controller to provide current limited to a section of the sensor array containing the portion of the image data that is being processed by the input device during the wake up detection operation for enabling power saving when the wireless input device is at rest. As shown in the previous paragraphs the current controller may include a sensor array biasing block configured to bias current to the sensor array restricted to only a certain section of the sensor array on which the image data are being processed. At block if a motion is detected the wake up detector switches input device to a normal run mode of operation immediately to enable the navigation operation.

Although the operations of the methods herein are shown and described in a particular order it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the order of each method may be altered for example so that certain operations may be performed in a different in an inverse order or so that certain operations may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations.

Likewise although specific embodiments of the invention have been described and illustrated herein the invention is not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so described and illustrated. The scope of the invention is to be limited and defined only by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

