---

title: Lightweight armor system
abstract: The disclosure provides a shock absorbing layer comprised of one or more shock absorbing cells, where a shock absorbing cell is comprised of a cell interior volume containing a plurality of hydrogel particles and a free volume, and where the cell interior volume is surrounded by a containing layer. The containing layer has a permeability such that the hydrogel particles when swollen remain at least partially within the cell interior volume when subjected to a design shock pressure wave, allowing for force relaxation through hydrogel compression response. Additionally, the permeability allows for the flow of exuded free water, further dissipating wave energy. In an embodiment, a plurality of shock absorbing cells is combined with a penetration resistant material to mitigate the transmitted shock wave generated by an elastic precursor wave in the penetration resistant material.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08381632&OS=08381632&RS=08381632
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Department of Energy
number: 08381632
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110207
---
The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC07 05ID14517 between the U.S. Department of Energy DOE and Battelle Energy Alliance LLC.

One or more embodiments relates to a shock absorbing layer comprised of a hydrogel. In operation the hydrogel is a plurality of swollen hydrogel particles. The swollen hydrogel particles act in combination with a porous containing layer and a free volume to dissipate transmitted shock wave energy through frictional flow losses between the free water and the polymer network and the free water and the porous containing layer.

Impact processes are encountered when bodies are subjected to rapid impulsive loading where the duration of application is short compared to the time for the body to respond inertially. The inertial responses are stress pulses propagating through the body to communicate the presence of loads to interior points. Commonly such loadings are the result of ballistic impact or explosion.

Armors for the protection of personnel and equipment against impact processes are an area of significant effort. Armors are often multi layer protective systems with distinct protective characteristics arising as a result of individual material characteristics and resulting interfaces. In a typical armor system the kinetic energy of an incoming projectile or blast wave is dissipated through deformation or destruction of a front plate with backing plates providing for subsequent dissipation of kinetic energy that may transfer from or pass through the front plate without absorption. Typically if an impact drives a material beyond its elastic strength then an elastic wave behaving as a shock wave propagates away from the impact zone with an amplitude determined by the largest elastic stress that can be supported by the medium. Behind this wave there propagates a generally irreversible deformation wave that carries the material to the ultimate stress state that exists on the impact plane. The energy of the elastic precursor wave is generally much less than the subsequent deformation wave however when transmitted and coupled to a human body the elastic precursor wave can result in significant trauma.

As an armor component hydrogels have been investigated as energy absorbing components. Hydrogels have been utilized in various armors and blast protections both as primary absorption mechanisms and as backing layers. Hydrogels generally are cross linked polymer networks having hydrophilic properties. When immersed in water water diffuses into the hydrogel network due to osmotic pressure differences. The extent of diffusion is limited by the elastic stress caused by the stretching polymer chains and by any other stresses that act on the polymer phase. The network is comprised of large macromolecular chains and the solvent phases is of low molecular weight so that the liquid phase when unconstrained can be highly mobile compared to the network. In a constrained state where both the polymer and the liquid are enclosed by a contacting boundary the polymer network and the solvent phase tend to act in conjunction as an incompressible fluid.

In some applications the tendency to incompressibility has been exploited for pressure wave absorption by constraining a swollen hydrogel within a porous layer and relying on frictional flow between the hydrogel and the porous layer in order to dissipate compression energy. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 885 912 to Bumbarger issued Mar. 23 1999. These systems act to confine the hydrogel within a porous surrounding layer until the porous surrounding layer becomes subject to significant deformation by for example the arrival of a deformation wave at the back side of an armor fronting plate. The deformation of the porous surrounding layer fractures the confined hydrogel and produces a flow of the fractured hydrogel through the pores of the surrounding layer. The fracture energy and the frictional flow of the highly viscous hydrogel through the pores dissipate some portion of the energy delivered by the arrival of the deformation wave however the energy of the preceding elastic precursor wave which produces insignificant deformation largely passes through the confined hydrogel without attenuation. In the case of a personal armor system this energy is coupled to the body of the wearer. In a similar application confined hydrogels are utilized for isolation of blasts arising from spontaneous gas explosions in a mining environment. See Luo et al Experimental Study and Property Analysis of Seal filling Hydrogel Material for Hermetic Wall in Coal Mine 25 2010 . In the latter application the swollen hydrogel acts to absorb blast energy through elastic deformation of the polymer network. This mechanism can marginally operate in the absence of a deformation wave solely through elastic stretching however the confined nature of the swollen hydrogel maintains a constant percentage of free water in the hydrogel and eliminates any subsequent dissipation through the frictional flow of exuded free water.

It is known that swollen hydrogel particles under an unbounded compression undergo a viscoelastic deformation which acts to drive at least some free water from the swollen hydrogel polymer network. High speed compressions indicate that the viscoelastic nature and frictional flow between the free water and the polymer network can produce significant force relaxation. See e.g. Wang et al. High speed compression of single alginate microspheres 60 2005 . Significant yielding and deformations up to 50 may occur prior to failure of the swollen hydrogel particle. Generally speaking the friction coefficient of the swollen polymer network and the free water is proportional to the ratio of the viscosity of the free water and the average mesh size of the gel. For permanently cross linked polymer networks the friction can be enormous because the polymer network is a mesh of molecular size. See e.g. Doi et al. Friction Coefficient and Structural Transition in a Poly acrylamide Gel 21 2005 . As a result if a swollen hydrogel could be arranged such that frictional flow between free water and the hydrogel network was allowed in an unconstrained flow environment these frictional losses could be utilized for effective absorption of a shock pressure such as that arising from a transmitted shock wave. Further if the exuded free water were allowed to accrue additional energy absorption through subsequent frictional flow shock pressures could be further mitigated.

Accordingly it is an object of this disclosure to provide a shock absorbing layer utilizing a swollen hydrogel in a manner that more effectively mitigates shock wave compression energy so that the coupling of a shock wave compression to the body of the wearer is further reduced.

Further it is an object of this disclosure to provide a shock absorbing layer utilizing a swollen hydrogel in a manner allowing absorption of shock pressures through frictional flow between free water and the hydrogel network.

Further it is an object of this disclosure to provide a shock absorbing layer utilizing a swollen hydrogel in a manner that provides for additional energy absorption through subsequent frictional flow of free water exuded as a result of shock pressure.

Further it is an object of this disclosure to provide a shock absorbing layer incorporating a plurality of contained hydrogel volumes so that exuded free water may act to disperse shock pressure energy in directions substantially dissimilar to the prevailing shock pressure wave.

Further it is an object of this disclosure to provide a shock absorbing layer incorporating a plurality of contained hydrogel volumes in mechanical communication and having increasing free volume percentages as displacement from the shock pressure source increases in order to accommodate flow of exuded free water and increase frictional flow losses.

Further it an object of this disclosure to provide a shock absorbing layer incorporating a flexible cooling layer comprised of one or more cooling channels in fluid communication with an ambient environment so that cooling may be provided to a wearer in a high temperature environment.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

The process as disclosed herein provides a shock absorbing layer for the mitigation of an impinging shock wave from a shock wave source. For example the mitigation of a shock wave generated in the blast wave of an explosive blast or a shock wave generated as a result of an elastic precursor wave following the impact of a ballistic projectile on hard surface ballistic armors among others.

The shock absorbing layer is comprised of one or more shock absorbing cells. The shock absorbing cells are individually comprised of a containing layer enclosing a plurality of absorbent hydrogel particles. The cell interior volume formed within the enclosing containing layer is such that when the plurality of hydrogel particles are swollen the cell interior volume accommodates the hydrogel particles while concurrently allowing for establishment of a free volume. The permeability of the containing layer is such that at least a portion of the plurality of hydrogel particles are contained within the cell interior volume when swollen and subjected to a design shock pressure wave. Further the permeability is such that when a volume of water is adjacent to the containing layer and the volume of water is subjected to the design shock pressure wave at least some portion of the volume of water flows through the containing layer.

The compression response adhesion viscosity and other characteristics of the hydrogel particles in combination with the permeability of the containing layer act to mitigate the energy of an impinging short duration pressure wave. During the short duration pressure wave the swollen hydrogel particles are at least partially retarded from flowing through the containing layer and the compressive force acts to viscoelastically deform the swollen hydrogel particles driving at least some free water from the swollen hydrogel polymer network. The viscoelastic nature and frictional flow between the free water and the polymer network produces significant force relaxation and greatly attenuates the short duration pressure wave as it passes through the swollen hydrogel particles. The expelled free water flows into the free volume and provides further dissipation as the expelled free water is driven through the containing layer. The expelled free water may be forced through the containing layer in a multitude of directions substantially dissimilar to the prevailing direction of the short duration pressure wave providing significant lateral dispersion.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide a shock absorbing layer comprised of one or more shock absorbing cells where a shock absorbing cell is comprised of a cell interior volume containing a plurality of hydrogel particles and a free volume and where the cell interior volume is surrounded by a containing layer having a specified permeability.

The disclosure herein provides a shock absorbing layer for the mitigation of an impinging shock wave from a shock wave source. For example the mitigation of a shock wave generated in the blast wave of an explosive blast or a shock wave generated as a result of an elastic precursor wave following the impact of a ballistic projectile on hard surface ballistic armors among others.

The shock absorbing layer is comprised of one or more shock absorbing cells. The shock absorbing cells are individually comprised of a containing layer enclosing a plurality of absorbent hydrogel particles. The cell interior volume formed within the enclosing containing layer is such that when the plurality of hydrogel particles are swollen the cell interior volume accommodates the hydrogel particles while concurrently allowing for establishment of a free volume. The free volume within each shock absorbing cell is devoid of swollen hydrogel particles or other solid or liquid matter.

The free volume is a significant characteristic of the shock absorbing layer. Swollen hydrogels are biphasic materials and in the absence of a free volume tend to react as incompressible substances in response to short duration shock pressures such as would be experienced from a shock wave generated by an explosive blast or an elastic precursor wave following ballistic impact on a material. In the absence of a free volume and as a result of the subsequent incompressible behavior a shock pressure would largely pass through the constrained swollen hydrogel material without significant dissipation or mitigation and be subsequently experienced within the environment a swollen hydrogel layer is intended to protect. For example as a component in a personal armor system a layer of swollen hydrogel without the presence of a free volume allows an initial shock wave from an elastic precursor wave or an initial blast pressure to pass through the swollen hydrogel and be experienced by the wearer often resulting in significant physical trauma. By contrast the free volume within the shock absorbing layer of this disclosure provides for shock wave dissipation through the compression response of the swollen hydrogel particles. During the compression response frictional flow of free water exuding from the swollen hydrogel initially dissipates and spreads the energy of the impinging shock wave and subsequent flow of the exuded free water through the containing layer further mitigates the shock wave energy. Neither of these responses is available in a system utilizing swollen hydrogel particles in the absence of a free volume.

Within this disclosure the term cell interior volume as used with reference to the shock absorbing cell described herein means a three dimensional volume formed by a surrounding containing layer such that the cell interior volume is a closed volume having the containing layer as a contiguous boundary. Gaseous liquid or solid matter may reside within a cell interior volume as defined herein.

Within this disclosure the term free volume means a three dimensional volume within a cell interior volume when swollen hydrogel particles reside within the cell interior volume where the free volume is that portion of the cell interior volume characterized by the absence of swollen hydrogel particles or other solid or liquid matter and where the free volume has a gaseous pressure equivalent to the ambient pressure existing outside of the shock absorbing cell when the shock absorbing cell is not experiencing a shock pressure wave. Further the term free volume percentage as used in this disclosure means the percentage of a cell interior volume comprised by a free volume when swollen hydrogel particles reside within the cell interior volume and when the free volume has a gaseous pressure equivalent to the ambient pressure existing outside of the shock absorbing cell.

Within this disclosure the term hydrogel means a cross linked polymer network having hydrophilic properties. Further within this disclosure the term swollen when used in conjunction with a hydrogel denotes a hydrogel comprised of some degree of free water. As is understood hydrogels are highly water absorbent natural or synthetic polymers. As in known in the art the water present in a hydrogel may be broadly classified as bound water intermediate water and free water. Bound water and intermediate water are water molecules bound to the polymer molecules through hydrogen bonding or some other means and are largely immobilized. The extent of bound and intermediate water in a hydrogel may be determined by various methodologies such as dehydration and freezing. The water known as free water are water molecules that do not take part in hydrogen bonding with polymer molecules and as a result have a much greater degree of mobility in comparison with bound or intermediate water molecules. Thus a swollen hydrogel or like terms as used in this disclosure denotes a hydrogel comprised of some degree of free water.

Within this disclosure the term transmitted shock wave means a region of high pressure propagating through a medium at a velocity at least equivalent to the local speed of sound and characterized by an abrupt nearly discontinuous change in the characteristics of the medium. As is understood when a transmitted shock wave impinges on a solid material the impingement gives rise to a shock pressure felt on the solid material.

Within this disclosure the term design shock pressure wave means a shock pressure wave having a defined magnitude and duration and experienced by swollen hydrogel particulates in a shock absorbing cell as a result of a transmitted shock wave impinging on the shock absorbing cell. As is understood the magnitude and duration of the design shock pressure wave may be a function of the maximum ballistic or blast threat that a system utilizing the shock absorbing layer described here is designed to defeat.

An embodiment of the shock absorbing layer disclosed herein is discussed with reference to . illustrates a shock absorbing cell comprising a shock absorbing layer. Shock absorbing cell is comprised of containing layer surrounding and forming a cell interior volume and is further comprised of a hydrogel within the cell interior volume. The cell interior volume formed by containing layer exceeds the volume of hydrogel when hydrogel is swollen such that a free volume exists within the cell interior volume. Further the permeability of the containing layer is such that at least a portion of hydrogel is contained within the cell interior volume when hydrogel is swollen and subjected to a design shock pressure wave as will be further discussed infra. Typically containing layer is a flexible textile.

At hydrogel is comprised of a hydrogel material in particulate form. The term particulate is used herein to mean that the hydrogel material is in the form of discrete units denominated particles . The particles can comprise granules pulverulents spheres aggregates or agglomerates. However typically the particles described herein will be largely non aggregated. The particles can have any desired shape such as cubic polyhedral spherical rounded angular irregular or randomly sized irregular shapes.

By weight a swollen hydrogel is mostly liquid but behaves like a solid due to a three dimensional cross linked network within the liquid. Generally speaking the crosslinks within the fluid give a swollen hydrogel its structure and contributes to stickiness or tack. In this way gels are a dispersion of molecules or particles within a liquid in which the solid is the continuous phase and the liquid is the discontinuous phase. Hydrogels are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 057 521 4 062 817 4 525 527 4 286 082 4 340 706 and 4 295 987 among others.

As described containing layer surrounds the cell interior volume and contains hydrogel . Containing layer is typically a flexible material able to deform under the normal action of for example a wearer in a working environment. Further and as mentioned previously the cell interior volume enclosed by containing layer is sufficient such when hydrogel is swollen a free volume exists between the containing layer and hydrogel . The presence of free volume when hydrogel is in a swollen state is significant to the intended operation of shock absorbing cell as will be discussed infra.

Further containing layer is permeable to air and water. Additionally and significantly containing layer has a permeability such that at least a portion of hydrogel does not permeate through containing layer when hydrogel experiences a design shock pressure wave. As will be discussed a prevailing mode of energy dissipation in the shock absorbing layer disclosed here relies on frictional flow losses as free water is compressed from the polymer network of a given swollen hydrogel particle. Such compression on the swollen hydrogel particle may be significantly mitigated or eliminated if the particle is allowed substantially unrestrained acceleration and movement in the direction of an impinging design shock pressure wave. The shock absorbing layer disclosed herein is intended to provide for energy loss through frictional flow losses by employing a containing layer having a permeability such that at least some portion of the swollen hydrogel particles undergo a compression sufficient to force free water flow as a result of pressure wave impingement and subsequent flow retardation arising through the material permeability and the viscoelastic effects of the hydrogel. Generally speaking the permeability of the containing layer should be such that transfer of swollen hydrogel particles through the containing layer is minimized under a design shock pressure wave. Preferably the permeability of the containing layer is such that a majority of the swollen hydrogel particles fail to transfer through the containing layer in response to the design shock pressure wave. More preferably 90 or greater fail to transfer.

The term permeability as used herein means a measure of the ability of a porous material such as a containing layer to transmit a fluid. Permeability relates flow rate and fluid physical properties such as viscosity to a pressure gradient applied to the porous material. Permeability in this sense describes a material property of the porous material itself such that for a given permeability and pressure gradient flow rate would be expected to decrease with increasing viscosity of the fluid.

As discussed the design shock pressure wave has a defined magnitude and duration and may be a function of the ballistic or blast threat that a system utilizing the shock absorbing cell is designed to defeat. The shock absorbing cell described within this disclosure is not limited by the magnitude or duration of the design shock pressure wave provided that the containing layer has a permeability such that at least a portion preferably a majority more preferably greater than 90 of swollen hydrogel particulates do not permeate through the containing layer when the swollen hydrogel particles experience the design shock pressure wave.

The presence of free volume when hydrogel is in a swollen state is significant to the intended operation of shock absorbing cell . The free volume within the cell interior volume accommodates the response of the swollen hydrogel particles when subjected to a rapid compression arising from a shock pressure wave. This is illustrated with reference to showing shock absorbing cell comprised of containing layer surrounding hydrogel . Hydrogel is comprised of a plurality of swollen hydrogel particles such as swollen hydrogel particle . The cell interior volume enclosed by containing layer is sufficient such the plurality of swollen hydrogel particles are accommodated with free volume existing between containing layer and the plurality of swollen hydrogel particles. As discussed when containing layer is not subject to a compressive load free volume has a gaseous pressure equivalent to the ambient pressure existing outside the cell interior volume enclosed by containing layer as a result of equilibrium arising from the air permeable nature of containing layer .

The adhesion viscosity and other characteristics of hydrogel in combination with the permeability of containing layer act to mitigate the energy of an impinging short duration pressure wave. illustrates shock absorbing cell subjected to such a short duration pressure wave P. As a result of the short duration pressure wave P containing layer may deform somewhat and attenuate short duration pressure wave Pto some degree before some portion Pis felt on the plurality of swollen hydrogel particles such as swollen hydrogel particle . As discussed previously the permeability of containing layer is such that some portion of the swollen hydrogel particles comprising hydrogel preferably a majority more preferably greater than 90 are retarded from flowing through containing layer during the short duration of pressure wave P. As a result pressure wave Pacts to compress some portion of the swollen hydrogel particles. In terms of operation pressure wave Pmay be for example the design shock pressure wave.

It is known that swollen hydrogels may be characterized as biphasic materials. Biphasic mixture theory also referred to as the poroelastic theory characterizes the flow of fluid through a porous medium which itself undergoes a deformation. The three dimensional polymer network and the penetrating fluid in a swollen hydrogel are taken as the solid and fluid phases respectively. In the swollen hydrogel the network is comprised of large macromolecular chains and the solvent phases is of low molecular weight so that the liquid phase is highly mobile compared to the network.

It is further known that swollen hydrogel particles under compressive load undergo a viscoelastic deformation which acts to drive at least some free water from the swollen hydrogel polymer network. High speed compressions indicate that the viscoelastic nature and frictional flow between the free water and the polymer network can produce significant force relaxation. See e.g. Wang et al. High speed compression of single alginate microspheres 60 2005 . Significant yielding and deformations up to 50 may occur prior to failure of the swollen hydrogel particle. Generally speaking the friction coefficient of the swollen polymer network and the free water is proportional to the ratio of the viscosity of the free water and the average mesh size of the gel. For permanently cross linked polymer networks the friction can be enormous because the polymer network is a mesh of molecular size. See e.g. Doi et al. Friction Coefficient and Structural Transition in a Poly acrylamide Gel 21 2005 .

As a result at when the swollen hydrogel particles comprising hydrogel are retarded from flowing through containing layer during the short duration of pressure wave P the compressive force acts to viscoelastically deform the swollen hydrogel particles and drive at least some free water from the swollen hydrogel polymer network. The viscoelastic nature and frictional flow between the free water and the polymer network produces significant force relaxation and greatly attenuates pressure wave Pas it passes through the swollen hydrogel particles. The expelled free water flows into free volume . As a result of the attenuation due to compression of the swollen hydrogel particles frictional flow and force relaxation effects a significantly attenuated pressure wave Presults.

As discussed the presence of free volume is significant to this operation. In the absence of a free volume such as for example a situation where hydrogel is packed into a containing layer pocket such that the swollen hydrogel exhibits a positive pressure outward on the pocket the short duration of a shock pressure wave combined with the lack of a free volume causes the swollen hydrogel to act as essentially an incompressible substance over the short duration of the shock pressure wave. As a result force relaxation resulting from the frictional flow of free water expelled from the swollen hydrogel particles cannot occur and the shock pressure wave passes through the containing layer pocket without significant attenuation. A similar situation arises when swollen hydrogels are surrounded by solid material substantially densified as result of the swelling pressure of the hydrogels. In these situations energy dissipation which does occur results largely from deformation of the containing pocket itself driven by for example a deformation shock wave arriving at the back side of a bullet resistant outer layer as opposed to the preceding elastic precursor wave.

The degree of force relaxation and subsequent pressure wave attenuation resulting from compression of the swollen hydrogel particles in the presence of free volume is dependent on the free volume percentage as defined herein among other factors. Preferably the free volume percentage is at least 20 . More preferably the free volume percentage is between 20 and 50 .

With reference to and in order to provide for the operation illustrated at an acceptable permeability of containing layer may be determined based on the properties of hydrogel and the design shock pressure wave acting on hydrogel . As is known hydrogels in the swollen state generally exhibit adhesion and viscosity characteristics among other properties. As is further understood a shock pressure wave which acts on hydrogel is an impulse type pressure of extremely short duration. Within this disclosure it is only necessary that the adhesion viscosity and other characteristics of hydrogel in combination with the permeability of containing layer function such that at least some portion of hydrogel remains within the cell interior volume enclosed by containing layer following the short duration of the design shock pressure wave. The acceptable permeability of containing layer to meet this condition may be determined by computational modeling prior experience actual testing using e.g. a high speed compression or other means. As discussed supra it is preferable to minimize the transfer of swollen hydrogel particles through the containing layer in response to the design shock pressure wave. Further it is not required that the permeability be sufficient to retard swollen hydrogel particle flow when subjected to a steady state pressure equivalent to the maximum pressure of the design shock pressure wave or any value of steady state pressure provided that the permeability is sufficient over the short duration of the design shock pressure wave.

In an embodiment the plurality of hydrogel particles comprising hydrogel are poly acrylic acid doped with partial sodium salt with a typical size of less than 150 micron in the unswollen state. Containing layer is a flexible textile with a permeability deriving from pore sizes between and 3 16 inches. The cell interior volume is sufficient to allow a free volume percentage of approximately 50 when the hydrogel particles are in a fully saturated swollen state.

Continued dissipation during the short duration of pressure wave Poccurs from the interaction of expelled free water and containing layer . At the expelled free water having been forced into free volume and having a significantly lower viscosity than the water depleted hydrogel particles may be forced through containing layer by the continued action of pressure wave P. This provides for further dissipation as a result of frictional flow losses as the expelled free water passes through containing layer . This energy dissipation however significant necessarily occurs following force relaxation effects generated by expulsion of free water from the swollen hydrogel particles. Additionally due to containing layer surrounding hydrogel the expelled free water may be forced through containing layer in a multitude of directions substantially dissimilar to the prevailing direction of the pressure wave P. Flow through containing layer in a multitude of directions dissimilar to Pmay provide significant lateral dispersion of the pressure wave P further attenuating the resulting pressure wave P.

In order to accommodate energy dissipation arising from the flow of expelled free water through containing layer it is advantageous to further ensure that the permeability of containing layer is sufficient such that flow stagnation is mitigated when Pacts on the expelled free water. For a given permeability of containing layer it is expected that the significant viscosity difference between hydrogel and the expelled free water will result in a significantly greater flow of expelled free water over the short duration of a pressure wave such as P as compared to the flow of hydrogel through containing layer if any. This characteristic may serve as a bound on the acceptable permeability of containing layer for optimal operation in that the permeability should be sufficient such that some portion preferably a majority more preferably 90 or greater of the swollen hydrogel particles fail to transfer through the containing layer in response to the design shock pressure wave while concurrently the permeability should be sufficient such that stagnation of the expelled free water against containing layer is mitigated when the expelled free water is subject to the design shock pressure wave.

As discussed a transmitted shock wave impinging on shock absorbing cell and generating a short duration pressure wave such as Pmay arise from any source. For example at shock absorbing cell is intended to mitigate a transmitted shock wave emanating from back face of a penetration resistant outer layer in response to a ballistic impact at strike face . As is understood materials experiencing a ballistic impact will first respond elastically when shock compressed before generating a propagating front of stable fracture. The elastic response generates an elastic precursor wave preceding a deformation wave that carries the material to the final shock compressed state. At the back face of the material the elastic precursor wave encounters an interface and a transmitted shock wave and a reflected wave are generated. The transmitted shock wave preceding the deformation wave in time initially emanates from the back face of the material without significant material deformation. This behavior can be observed for example through velocity interferometry of the backside following a ballistic impact where the velocity history of the back surface directly reflects the structure of the shock waves that have propagated through the sample and the effects of shock compression on the material. Such observations indicate back face displacement similar to that indicated generically at where an impact occurs to a strike face at time t the elastic wave arrives at the back face at time t and elastic to plastic transition and subsequent back face velocity occurs at a following time t. As is understood for ballistic impacts these events occur on a time scale of microseconds. In the embodiment at shock absorbing cell is intended to mitigate the transmitted shock wave emanating from back face as a result of an elastic precursor wave propagating through penetration resistant outer layer and arriving at back face in response to a ballistic impact at strike face . However as stated within this disclosure a transmitted shock wave may arise from any source.

The term penetration resistant as it applies to penetration resistant outer layer denotes a material or combination of materials which singularly or in combination are designed to dissipate all or some portion of the energy of an incoming blast or projectile. A penetration resistant material as used in this disclosure includes materials described as bullet resistant or blast resistant bullet proof or blast proof or other like terms. Such materials are designed to respond to an incoming ballistic threat at strike face by absorbing some portion of the kinetic energy of the incoming projectile through for example microfragmentation fiber stretch plastic deformation or some other mechanism. Similarly the term strike face as applied to a penetration resistant material means an external face of the material oriented toward an impact source prior to impact. Back face means an external face of the material other than the strike face. In an embodiment intended for use with a penetration resistant material such as penetration resistant outer layer the design shock pressure wave as defined herein may follow from the highest energy projectile for which bullet resistant outer layer is designed to be bullet resistant based on an applicable standard.

Further as illustrated at it is not necessary that back face establish physical contact with shock absorbing cell provided that some medium such as air is present to result in transmission of the shock pressure wave to shock absorbing cell . As a result physical contact between back face and shock absorbing cell may or may not be present. With respect to the embodiment shown at it is only necessary that penetration resistant outer layer and shock absorbing cell have relative positions such that a transmitted shock wave emanating from back face is transmitted to and experienced by shock absorbing cell . For example when a ballistic impact occurs to strike face of bullet resistant outer layer back face is expected to respond with a displacement profile similar to that indicated at and a transmitted shock wave is expected to generate following the arrival of the elastic precursor wave and prior to deformation of back face . The transmitted shock wave is expected to propagate through any medium between back face and shock absorbing cell before impinging on shock absorbing cell . As is understood the resulting shock pressure felt on shock absorbing cell will depend on the properties of the interlaying medium if any between back face and shock absorbing cell .

In an embodiment such as that illustrated at it is understood that additional effects are expected to occur following the arrival of a deformation wave at back face however the shock wave dissipating effects illustrated at temporally precede the arrival of a deformation wave at back face and are not reliant on any additional effects generated by arrival of the deformation wave at back face .

In a further embodiment a shock absorbing layer is comprised of a plurality of shock absorbing cells. For example as depicted at the plurality of shock absorbing cells generally indicated at is comprised of shock absorbing cells and forming a honeycomb structure as illustrated. As previously described each shock absorbing cell contains a plurality of hydrogel particles and possesses a free volume percentage. The plurality of shock absorbing cells underlies penetration resistant outer layer such that a transmitted shock wave emanating from back face impinges the plurality of shock absorbing cells .

It can be appreciated that in an arrangement such as depicted at attenuation of a transmitted shock wave is enhanced as the shock wave proceeds through succeeding layers displaced progressively further from bullet resistant outer layer as the compression of swollen hydrogel particles and the presence of free volume results in dissipating frictional flow. Further flow of exuded free water through respective containing layers as the transmitted shock wave displaces from bullet resistant outer layer continues to attenuate the shock pressure wave.

In the embodiment depicted at each shock absorbing cell such as shock absorbing cell may be in mechanical communication with one or more other shock absorbing cells such as shock absorbing cell . Mechanical communication between shock absorbing cells such as and aids in attenuation and lateral dispersion of substantially localized pressure waves which may act more strongly on a given shock absorbing cell due to the spatial relationship between the shock absorbing cell and a point of impact. For example at a ballistic impact produces a force F on bullet resistant layer at an impact point resulting in short duration pressure wave Parising as a result of the elastic response of bullet resistant layer . As indicated the short duration pressure wave Pwould be expected to act primarily over a localized area of the plurality of shock absorbing cells and may have varying magnitude along an axis substantially parallel to back face . The short duration pressure wave Pwould be expected to produce a greater shock pressure on the swollen hydrogel contained in shock absorbing cell than on the swollen hydrogel contained in shock absorbing cell as well as have temporal separation based on time of arrival at the respective shock absorbing cells. In such a situation and given that shock absorbing cells and contain free volumes mechanical communication between shock absorbing cells and allows expelled free water to be forced through the respective containing layers from for example shock absorbing cell to shock absorbing cell .

Additionally in an embodiment such as that depicted at it may be advantageous to vary the free volume between shock absorbing cells based on the spatial relationship of each shock absorbing cell to back face . For example shock absorbing cell may have a free volume percentage of approximately 50 when the hydrogel particles contained therein are swollen while shock absorbing cell which would be expected to experience the effects of short duration pressure wave Plater in time than hydrogel containing volume may have some free volume percentage greater than that. This may be advantageous in order to ensure that the free volume of shock absorbing cell is sufficient to accommodate both flow of expelled free water from shock absorbing cell and the expulsion of free water from the hydrogel contained within shock absorbing cell once the short duration pressure wave subsequently acts on shock absorbing cell . A similar relationship between shock absorbing cells and may be further advantageous as the free volume contained within shock absorbing cell might be expected to accommodate expelled free water from the hydrogel within shock absorbing cell as well as expelled free water originating in shock absorbing cells and for example. A natural consequence might be one or more closed volumes characterized by an absence of swollen hydrogel particles and comprised of only interior volume such as for example closed volume . Such an arrangement where a plurality of shock absorbing cells comprised of hydrogel particles may be in mechanical communication with closed volumes containing no hydrogel is contemplated within this disclosure.

An alternate way of expressing the possible free volume variance can be formulated by comparing the geometric centers of two or more shock absorbing cells such as shock absorbing cells and . As depicted at the geometric center of shock absorbing cell is displaced farther from back face than the geometric center of shock absorbing cell . In order to accommodate the flow of expelled water from shock absorbing cell to shock absorbing cell the free volume percentage of the shock absorbing cell having a greater displacement between the geometric center and back face here shock absorbing cell would exceed the free volume percentage of the shock absorbing cell having a lesser displacement here shock absorbing cell . Similarly in an embodiment without a penetration resistant outer layer and a back face similar variation of the free volume percentage may be employed based on displacement of geometric centers from a pressure wave receiving face where the pressure wave receiving face of shock absorbing layer is comprised of those shock absorbing cells expected to directly experience a transmitted shock wave prior to attenuation of the shock wave by other shock absorbing cells. For example at and in the absence of penetration resistant outer layer shock absorbing cell would comprise the pressure wave receiving face.

It is understood that in an embodiment such as depicted at attenuation of the transmitted shock wave occurs as the transmitted shock wave propagates through shock absorbing cells such as shock absorbing cell and shock absorbing cell . Thus the design shock pressure wave as defined herein may be expected to vary based on the interactions experienced by a transmitted shock wave prior to encountering the hydrogel in a given closed volume. For example at the design shock pressure wave of shock absorbing cell volume may be expected to be less than the design shock pressure wave of shock absorbing cell . It may be convenient to utilize a single value of design shock pressure wave when evaluating the permeability of a containing layer for sufficiency however varying values of permeability based on the expected design shock pressure experienced within a given shock absorbing cell are envisioned within this disclosure and such variations are included within the concept of sufficient permeability and like terms as used herein.

Further at it is understood that the variance in magnitude of the short duration pressure wave Pas depicted may be exaggerated relative to the size of shock absorbing cells and for illustrative purposes.

In an embodiment bullet resistant outer layer is a SiC composite system resistant to a 0.30 caliber AP or under piercing round. The plurality of hydrogel particles comprising each shock absorbing cell are poly acrylic acid doped with partial sodium salt with a typical size of less than 150 micron in the unswollen state. The containing layer surrounding each shock absorbing cell is a flexible textile having pore size between and 3 16 inches. The free volume percentage of each shock absorbing cell is approximately 50 . In this embodiment a portion of the plurality of shock absorbing cells is in mechanical communication with closed volumes containing no hydrogel as described above.

It may be further advantageous to incorporate a separating layer into a plurality of shock absorbing cells comprising for example a honeycomb structure. The separating layer may have permeability variance from the containing layers enclosing each shock absorbing cell. For example at a shock absorbing layer is comprised of a plurality of shock absorbing cells forming a honeycomb structure and further comprised of separating layer . Separating layer is aligned substantially parallel to back face of bullet resistant outer layer . Separating layer is typically a flexible material under for example the normal activities of a wearer in a working environment. Further the separating layer may have a permeability less than the containing layer comprising each shock absorbing cell such that during the propagation of a design shock pressure wave through the plurality of shock absorbing cells expelled free water experiences increased frictional flow losses when forced through separating layer producing greater energy dissipation. For example in an embodiment the containing layer surrounding each shock absorbing cell has a pore size ranging from to 3 16 while separating layer has a pore size under 1 16 diameter. Similar to the acceptable permeability of containing layer it is advantageous to select a permeability of separating layer such that stagnation of expelled free water against separating layer is mitigated in response to a design shock pressure wave.

In the embodiment illustrated at it may be advantageous to provide mechanical communication between shock absorbing cells and closed volumes at either side of separating layer . For example shock absorbing cells and may be in mechanical communication with closed volumes and respectively. As before closed volumes and are characterized by an absence of swollen hydrogel particles and comprised of only interior volume

In a further embodiment the shock absorbing layer is comprised of a cooling layer. The cooling layer provides for heat removal from the body of a wearer in operation. Body heat from the wearer may be removed through evaporation of free water within a swollen hydrogel. As illustrated at the cooling layer lies between strike face of penetration resistant outer layer and a plurality of shock absorbing cells generally indicated at and lies substantially parallel to back face . Cooling layer has a permeability allowing passage of water vapor such that water vapor generated from the interaction of body heat and free water in the swollen hydrogel may permeate through cooling layer . The cooling layer may be further comprised of cooling channel in fluid communication with an external environment surrounding the shock absorbing layer to allow more effective passage of heat from cooling layer to the surrounding environment. Further cooling layer is typically comprised of a flexible material such that normal motion of a wearer causes flexure in cooling layer and deformation of cooling channel . Such flexure provides a pumping action within cooling channel and increases the cooling action of cooling layer . This may be particularly advantageous for high activity wearers such as working canines.

It is further understood that various means may be employed in order to establish a spatial relationship between a one or more shock absorbing cells and the back side of a penetration resistant outer layer as described within this disclosure. Within this disclosure in embodiments utilizing a penetration resistant outer layer it is only necessary that the one or more shock absorbing cells be arranged relative to the back face such that a transmitted shock wave emanating from the back face impinges on the one or more shock absorbing cells. The shock absorbing cells may take a variety of forms which advantageously provide for ease of use in a working environment. For example in an armor system comprised of a penetration resistant outer layer a plurality of shock absorbing cells and optionally a cooling layer the penetration resistant outer layer the plurality of shock absorbing cells and the cooling layer may be physically separable from one another to provide for example for initial or subsequent saturation of the hydrogel particles without immersion of the armor system en toto or for other operational considerations which may arise.

Thus the disclosure herein provides a shock absorbing layer for the mitigation of an impinging shock wave from a shock wave source. The shock absorbing layer is comprised of one or more shock absorbing cells individually comprised of a containing layer enclosing a plurality of absorbent hydrogel particles. The cell interior volume formed within the enclosing containing layer is such that when the plurality of hydrogel particles are swollen the cell interior volume accommodates the hydrogel particles while concurrently allowing for establishment of a free volume devoid of swollen hydrogel particles or other solid or liquid matter. The free volume provides for shock wave dissipation through the compression response of the swollen hydrogel particles. During the compression response frictional flow of free water exuding from the swollen hydrogel initially dissipates and spreads the energy of the impinging shock wave and subsequent flow of the exuded free water through the containing layer further mitigates the shock wave energy. In an embodiment the shock absorbing layer mitigates transmitted shock waves emanating from the back face of a penetration resistant material. The shock absorbing layer may include a cooling layer to provide for example comfort to the wearer of a personal armor system incorporating the shock absorbing layer.

Accordingly the disclosure provides a shock absorbing layer utilizing a swollen hydrogel in a manner that more effectively mitigates shock wave compression energy so that the coupling of a shock wave compression to the body of the wearer is further reduced.

Further the disclosure provides a shock absorbing layer utilizing a swollen hydrogel in a manner allowing absorption of shock pressures through frictional flow between free water and the hydrogel network.

Further the disclosure provides a shock absorbing layer utilizing a swollen hydrogel in a manner that provides for additional energy absorption through subsequent frictional flow of free water exuded as a result of shock pressure.

Further the disclosure provides a shock absorbing layer incorporating a plurality of contained hydrogel volumes so that exuded free water may act to disperse shock pressure energy in directions substantially dissimilar to the prevailing shock pressure wave.

Further the disclosure provides a shock absorbing layer incorporating a plurality of contained hydrogel volumes in mechanical communication and having increasing free volume percentages as displacement from the shock pressure source increases in order to accommodate flow of exuded free water and increase frictional flow losses.

Further the disclosure provides a shock absorbing layer incorporating a flexible cooling layer comprised of one or more cooling channels in fluid communication with an ambient environment so that cooling may be provided to a wearer in a high temperature environment

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present disclosure and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It is intended that the scope of the disclosure be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present disclosure have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the disclosure does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present disclosure.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

