---

title: Mobile vertical missile launcher
abstract: A mobile terrestrial vertical missile launch system is provided for relocatable ballistic missile deployment. The system is connectable to a transport truck and includes a trailer, a pivotable canister, a plurality of stabilizing legs, and an equipment module. The trailer has a hitch for connecting to the truck, a base for supporting wheels for road travel, and a flatbed platform having a transverse hinge. The canister contains launcher for at least one missile and is configurable by rotation at the hinge for disposal in either a longitudinal position for stowage or an erected position for deployment. The stabilizing legs are disposed along a periphery of the trailer. The legs can be disposed in one of an elevated position for stowage and a retarded position for ground engagement. The equipment container supplies electrical power, environmental conditioning, tracking, communication and control for the missile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08266999&OS=08266999&RS=08266999
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08266999
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110201
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 61 340 031 with a filing date of Mar. 1 2010 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to vertical missile launchers. In particular the invention relates to road mobile launchers for surface to air intercept missiles.

Vertical missile launchers have conventionally been deployed aboard warships such as cruisers and destroyers to replace rail launchers. Originally developed for anti submarine warfare e.g. ASROC RUM 139 vertical launchers were subsequently deployed for other missiles for guidance using shipboard radar such as Aegis. Missiles to be incorporated in ship board vertical launcher arrays include Tomahawk BGM 109 and Standard Missile. Of the latter the SM 2 RIM 67 and SM 3 RIM 161 versions are used for surface to air interception of either hostile aircraft or ballistic warheads.

Conventional tactical surface to air missiles for are deployable on exposed ground based launch stands. However these involve deployment of several platforms for target detection tracking guidance and control.

Conventional vertical missile launchers yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular these designs provide such a launcher intended for relocatable ground transport.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a mobile terrestrial vertical missile launch system for relocatable ballistic missile deployment. The system is connectable to a transport truck and includes a trailer a pivotable canister a plurality of stabilizing legs and an equipment module. The trailer has a hitch for connecting to the truck a base for supporting wheels for road travel and a flatbed platform having a transverse hinge.

In various embodiments the canister contains a launcher for at least one missile and is configurable by rotation at the hinge for disposal in either a longitudinal position for stowage or an erected position for deployment. The stabilizing legs are disposed along a periphery of the trailer. The legs can be disposed in one of an elevated position for stowage and a retarded position for ground engagement. The equipment container supplies electrical power conditioning communication and control for the missile.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a system for deploying a modular vertically launched missile launcher previously used exclusively in ship board installations on a fully mobile land based platform resulting in an expeditionary type missile launching system. The design incorporates a modular vertical missile launcher from which to house and launch the missiles a trailer capable of transporting the launcher and all of its associated sub systems such that the launcher and its sub systems are an erected and enabled on the trailer and can then be quickly stowed and transported without removal from said trailer.

The Mk 41 Vertical Launching System VLS has been successfully used on numerous United States Navy and allied ships for many years. Policy considerations for implementing tactical ballistic missile defense have led to interest in extending the field of operations of this missile launching system to ground based applications. One inherent characteristic for more effective security and cost effective logistics involves having the missile launching system be readily mobile. While many mobile missile launching systems have been developed in the past this is the first known application of incorporating an in service Navy missile launcher onto a fully road mobile or expeditionary land based platform.

A plurality of stabilizing legs terminating in ground pads are disposed along the longitudinal periphery of the trailer raised to extend upward substantially parallel to the sides of the canister in the stowed configuration. Equipment modules for supplying electrical power and HVAC support radar tracking and missile control systems may be disposed on the base . A transverse hinge disposed on the trailer perpendicular to the trailer s longitudinal axis attaches to one edge of the canister for pivoting. The trailer enables the canister and accompanying equipment to connect to a large motorized truck for travel across road for deployment that can be relocated at short notice.

A fore ledge on the hitch can support one bottom free edge of the canister in the stowed configuration. An aft ledge on the base can support the other bottom free edge of the canister in the deployed configuration. A motor within the equipment can be used to rotate the canister from supine stowage as position to erect deployment as position and or the legs from upright to retard as deployed .

Various exemplary embodiments provide an expeditionary platform that can carry the Navy VLS in a stowed configuration along with all of its immediate sub systems on a single towable unit or trailer for transport to a road accessible launch site. Upon reaching the intended location various exemplary embodiments provide erection and preparation for operations in a short period of time. Accomplishing this necessitates carrying all immediately necessary sub systems on the same trailer or towable package as the launcher itself.

Various exemplary embodiments employ the existing Mk 41 VLS along with several other systems including environmental conditioning e.g. heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC electrical power generation fuel storage pressurized water storage electrical connection boxes stabilizing jacks armor plating and mechanical erection devices to encompass a complete expeditionary VLS package.

The Mk 41 VLS has been in operation for many years and constitutes a modular multi purpose vertically oriented missile launcher capable of launching many Navy missiles installed aboard warships. Its conventional design inherently focuses around shipboard installation. The launcher has built in electronics to operate and launch the missiles albeit operating with ship board power supply a built in gas management system to channel and direct missile exhaust away from the ship and sufficient structure to store the missiles prior to launch.

However because the Mk 41 VLS is designed to be installed in a warship its design relies on numerous ship services including electrical power heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC and ballistic protection. Thus various exemplary embodiments have been developed to render the Mk 41 VLS independent of ship board services by converting the launcher into a self sufficient operating unit. For these embodiments a separate command and control function can be assumed to remain external to the Mk 41 VLS mobile unit and communicate missile operational commands to the VLS module through an external data communications interface.

Various exemplary embodiments are based on a custom designed low slung trailer arrangement where the primary long bed of the trailer is positioned below the tops of the tires allowing for maximum overhead clearance. The Mk 41 VLS can be initially stowed in a horizontal configuration towards one end of the trailer. The Mk 41 VLS remains enclosed in an armored case that provides ballistic protection anti intrusion protection and general protection from the environment. This armored case contains numerous access panels and doorways to enable personnel to install missiles maintain equipment and perform routine VLS related tasks.

Also integral to the armored skin is all of the necessary HVAC ducting to maintain internal temperature humidity and air quality for the system. All electrical data and communications connections can be conducted through one or more interface panels on the exterior of the armored case so that no access panels or doors remain open for an extended time during normal operation. The HVAC system power generation unit fuel storage units for the power generation unit and fire suppression systems can be located at the two end of the trailer unit either over the rear wheels or in the vicinity of the tongue or both.

For the trailer having been towed into desired position integral support jacks can be deployed to stabilize the system to prevent vibration tipping or to correct for variations in site elevation. The Mk 41 VLS is then erected by pivoting it about a hinge pin located along the lower edge of the launcher connected to the trailer such that the launcher is rotated from a horizontal stowed configuration to a vertical deployed configuration. Erection of the launcher can either be accomplished through the use of an external crane system or preferably through a mechanical self erection mechanism installed between the trailer and the launcher.

Once the launcher is fully erected it will need to be secured or latched to the trailer in the deployed configuration. HVAC fire suppression and power generation connections can either be made once the launcher is erected or some systems could be designed with sufficient flexibility in their connections to remain connected in both the stowed and deployed configuration. For services connected after erecting the launcher all connections should preferably use ruggedized flexible quick connect fittings and connectors to ensure a rapid set up time. These aspects represent design considerations within the scope of the artisan of ordinary skill without departing from the scope of the invention.

The primary advantage to this system is the ability to take a previously ship based missile launching system and incorporate it into highly mobile rapid deployment land based missile launching system. The inventive features of these exemplary embodiments include the incorporation of a ship based system reliant on shipboard services into a self contained land based system.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

