---

title: Deployable legrest
abstract: A legrest assembly including a calf support hinged to a forward end of a seat frame and moveable between a stowed configuration generally vertically disposed below the forward end of the frame and a deployed configuration inclined above the stowed configuration, a foot support movable with and telescopically connected to the calf support, and a foot rest pivotally connected to the foot support and pivotable between a stowed configuration substantially parallel to the foot support and a deployed configuration extending outward from the foot support.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08444225&OS=08444225&RS=08444225
owner: BE Aerospace, Inc.
number: 08444225
owner_city: Wellington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110201
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 300 519 filed Feb. 2 2010 and entitled DEPLOYABLE LEGREST the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

This invention relates generally to a legrest assembly for a passenger seat and more particularly to a deployable legrest assembly including tensioned fabric diaphragm surfaces that are deployed and stowed under forces applied by a seated passenger.

Airline passengers in all sections of an aircraft desire comfort whether they are seated in first class coach or budget seating areas. Aircraft designers and commercial operators are therefore challenged to provide as many comfortable amenities as space and financial constraints will permit and these constraints are particularly critical in the more densely seated sections of an aircraft.

Improvements are needed in legrests for aircraft passenger seats. Legrests that support all portions of a passenger s legs and feet are needed while space restraints must be observed particularly with regard to providing a legrest that can be stowed into a compact configuration.

In one embodiment a deployable legrest assembly for a passenger seat having a frame with a forward end is provided herein. The legrest assembly generally includes a calf support platform a foot support platform and a foot rest. The calf support platform is pivotally connected to the forward end of the frame. The calf support platform has a stowed configuration in which the calf support platform is generally vertically disposed below the forward end of the frame and a deployed configuration in which the calf support platform is inclined at an angle above that of the stowed configuration. The foot support platform is movably connected to the calf support platform and travels with the calf support platform as the calf support platform is moved between its stowed and deployed configurations. The foot support platform telescopically extends from the calf support platform. The foot rest is pivotally connected to the foot support platform and is pivotable between a stowed configuration essentially parallel to the foot support platform and a deployed configuration extending outward from the foot support platform.

In another embodiment a legrest assembly for a passenger seat is provided herein including a calf support adapted to be hinged to a forward end of a seat frame and moveable between a stowed configuration generally vertically disposed below the forward end of the frame and a deployed configuration inclined above the stowed configuration a foot support movably connected to the calf support and travelling with the calf support between the deployed and stowed configurations the foot support telescopically extendable from the calf support and a foot rest pivotally connected to the foot support and pivotable between a stowed configuration substantially parallel to the foot support and a deployed configuration extending outward from the foot support.

In a further embodiment the calf support includes a pair of laterally spaced rails interconnected through at least one plate member that maintains the rails in their relative lateral spacing.

In further embodiment the calf support further includes a fabric diaphragm attached at its opposing lateral sides to the rails.

In a further embodiment the rails include integral tabs extending from each of the rails that hold a retaining rod received in a longitudinally extending sleeve of the fabric diaphragm.

In a further embodiment the legrest includes a lockable gas spring cylinder connected at one end to the seat frame and at another end to the calf support wherein the cylinder biases the calf support toward the deployed configuration.

In a further embodiment the foot support includes a pair of laterally spaced rails interconnected through at least one plate member that maintains the rails in their relative lateral spacing and a fabric diaphragm attached at its opposing lateral sides to the rails.

In a further embodiment the legrest includes an armature that facilitates movement of the foot support relative to the calf support the armature including a swing arm that hinges about a shoulder joint defined at a pivot point that pivotally connects an upper end of the swing arm to the at least one plate member of the calf support.

In a further embodiment the swing arm includes an upper arm member and a lower arm member connected together by a rigid elbow joint coordinating movement of the upper and lower arm members in separate parallel planes.

In a further embodiment the legrest includes a roller rotatably attached to a distal end of the lower arm member and trapped in a lateral slot defined between first and second plate members of the foot support the roller traveling longitudinally with the foot support and laterally along the slot as the foot support extends and retracts relative to the calf support.

In a further embodiment the legrest includes a lockable gas spring cylinder connected at one end to the at least one plate member of the calf support and at another end to the upper arm member between the shoulder joint and the rigid elbow joint wherein the cylinder is biased in the direction toward the stowed configuration of the foot support.

In another embodiment an aircraft passenger seat is provided herein including a seat frame having a forward end and a deployable legrest assembly including a calf support hinged to the forward end of the seat frame and moveable between a stowed configuration generally vertically disposed below the forward end of the seat frame and a deployed configuration inclined above the stowed configuration a foot support movably connected to the calf support and travelling with the calf support between the deployed and stowed configurations the foot support extendable from the calf support and a foot rest pivotally connected to the foot support and pivotable between a stowed configuration substantially parallel to the foot support and a deployed configuration extending outward from the foot support.

Referring to the drawings wherein identical reference numerals denote the same elements throughout the various views passenger seats A and B are illustrated in each having a deployable legrest according to one embodiment of the present invention. In the legrest of seat A is shown in its deployed configuration and the legrest of seat B is shown in its stowed configuration. In the legrest of seat A is deployed to support the legs and feet of a seated passenger. In both legrests are shown in their stowed configurations with seats A and B in their upright configurations to support seated passengers and to permit the entry and exit of passengers from the seats. As detailed in the following descriptions the legrest advantageously deploys and stows without motors or other powered actuators. In alternative embodiments legrest motion may be powered.

The legrest includes a calf support that deploys by hinging outward from the frame of the seat A. The calf support includes a pair of laterally spaced rails that hinge at their upper ends about a fixed axis of rotation such as pins which pivotally attach the rails to the frame of the seat A on opposing lateral sides of the calf support . Upper and lower base plates and are connected at their opposing lateral ends to the rails . The base plates maintain the rails in their relative lateral spacing and provide rigidity to the calf support which hinges as a rigid assembly about the pins .

As shown in the calf support includes a stretched diaphragm attached at its opposing lateral sides to the rails . The diaphragm may be constructed of a woven fabric a flexible sheet or other material. At each lateral side of the calf support integral extensions of the rails form tabs that hold a retaining rod . Lateral side portions of the diaphragm wrap around the retaining rod and are sewn to the diaphragm to form longitudinally extending sleeves in which the rod is positioned and by which the diaphragm is attached to the rail . The diaphragm defines a pliable comfortable support for the calves of a passenger when the calf support is deployed.

A lockable gas spring cylinder is connected at one end to the frame of the seat and at another end to the lower base plate of the calf support . The cylinder extends as the calf support swings away from the seat frame and is compressed as the calf support is stowed. The cylinder forcibly extends when released such as by the pressing of an armrest mounted button by the passenger or other control. In the case of an armrest mounted control the passenger may hold the button depressed until the preferred position of the calf support is reached and then releases the button to lock the cylinder and fix the position of the calf support . Thus the cylinder biases the calf support toward deployment away from the frame and thereby forcibly assists the raising of the calf support against gravity as the calf support is deployed. The passenger stows the calf support by applying forces to overcome the cylinder while holding down the armrest mounted button. The cylinder is compressed by forces applied by the legs of the passenger as the calf support is stowed. By storing energy from the work done by the passenger in stowing the calf support the cylinder is prepared to forcibly extend to deploy the calf support upon the next pressing of the armrest mounted button or other release.

The legrest further includes a foot support that deploys by extending telescopically from the calf support . The foot support in its stowed configuration resides substantially within the calf support between the diaphragm and the base plates and . The foot support generally travels with the calf support as the calf support hinges about the pins . The foot support includes a pair of laterally spaced rails FIGS. and that engage the calf support and move longitudinally relative to the rails as the foot support extends from and stows within the calf support . Base plates and are connected at their opposing lateral ends to the rails . The base plates maintain the rails in their relative lateral spacing and provide rigidity to the foot support which extends as a rigid assembly from the calf support .

As shown in the foot support includes a stretched diaphragm attached at its opposing lateral sides to the rails . The diaphragm defines a pliable comfortable support for the ankles and feet of a passenger when the foot support is deployed. The diaphragm may be constructed of a woven fabric flexible sheet or other material. At each lateral side of the foot support integral extensions of the rail form tabs that hold a retaining rod. Lateral side portions of the diaphragm wrap around the retaining rod and are sewn to the diaphragm to form longitudinally extending sleeves in which the retaining rod is positioned and by which the diaphragm is attached to the rail .

The legrest further includes a foot rest that deploys by hinging outward from the foot support . The foot rest is pivotally attached at its opposing sides to laterally spaced brackets at a fixed axis of rotation such as pivot pins . The brackets permit the foot rest to pivot about the pins between a stowed configuration and a deployed configuration . In the stowed configuration the generally planar foot rest is disposed approximately parallel to the diaphragm of the foot support . In the deployed configuration the foot rest is disposed approximately at a right angle relative to the diaphragm . The brackets are connected to distal ends of the rails of the foot support and extend outward from the rails to provide space for the calf support diaphragm which is disposed between the foot rest and the foot support diaphragm when the foot rest and foot support are placed in their stowed configurations as shown in . At each lateral side of the foot rest the bracket and pivot pin define a friction hinge that permits the passenger to pivot the foot rest to a desired angle and then generally maintains the foot rest at that angle.

In order to begin deploying the foot support after a preferred position of the calf support is reached a passenger first pivots the foot rest outward from the foot support and calf support for example by using the heels of his or her feet. The passenger then presses a second armrest mounted button or actuates another control to permit movement of the foot support relative to the calf support while pressing on the foot rest with the feet to extend the foot support from its stowed configuration. The button is held down until the preferred extension of the foot support is reached and then the button is released to lock the foot support relative to the calf support . Thus the amount of extension of the foot support from the calf support is selectable by the seated passenger.

An armature facilitates the movements of the foot support relative to the calf support . The armature includes a swing arm that hinges about a shoulder joint defined at a fixed axis or rotation such as bolt that pivotally connects an upper end of the swing arm to the base plate of the calf support . The swing arm includes an upper arm member and a lower arm member rigidly connected together by a rigid elbow joint . The upper arm member is generally disposed aft of the base plate while the lower arm member is generally disposed forward of the base plates and . The rigid elbow joint extends between the base plates and and rigidly coordinates movements of the upper and lower arm members and in separate parallel planes. The rigid elbow joint and the upper and lower arm members and are portions of a single piece element described individually herein for clarity.

A roller is rotatably attached to the distal end of the lower arm member and is trapped in a lateral slot defined between the base plates and of the foot support . As the foot support is extended from the stowed configuration of to the deployed configuration of the roller travels longitudinally with the foot support and laterally along the slot . Due to the rigidity of the elbow joint the entire swing arm pivots about the shoulder joint as the foot support extends and withdraws and as the roller travels longitudinally with and laterally along the slot . Foot support rails may carry rollers that facilitate movement and maintain contact between rails and calf support rails during deployment. The rollers may be guided within tracks to prevent rotational movement between calf support and foot support .

A lockable gas spring cylinder is connected at one end to the lower base plate of the calf support and at another end to the upper arm member between the shoulder joint and the rigid elbow joint . In the illustrated embodiment the cylinder has a shaft extending from a cylinder body and a spring . Other examples within the scope of these descriptions have other constructions. The cylinder is compressed as the foot support is extended from the stowed configuration of to the deployed configuration of and extends as the foot support is returned to the stowed configuration. The cylinder is biased toward its extended configuration which corresponds to the stowed configuration of the foot support and thereby forcibly assists the raising of the foot support against gravity as the foot support is returned to the stowed configuration of . The cylinder is compressed by forces applied by the feet of the passenger on the foot rest as the foot support is deployed. By storing energy from the work done by the passenger in deploying the foot support the cylinder is prepared to forcibly stow the foot support upon the next pressing of the second armrest mounted button or other control.

The foregoing has described a deployable legrest for a passenger seat. While specific embodiments of the present invention have been described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications thereto can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention and the best mode for practicing the invention are provided for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

