---

title: Method and apparatus for interacting with a set-top box using widgets
abstract: An approach is provided for enabling direct user interaction with specific items of content as presented by a content delivery system. Content is presented via a set-top box concurrently with a widget, indicating one or more items specified in content. User input relating to selection of one of the items is received. An interactive platform, in response to the input, generates a request specifying the selected item for purchase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984562&OS=08984562&RS=08984562
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08984562
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110113
---
With the advent of computers interactive electronic communications and the Internet as well as advances in the digital realm of consumer information has come a reinvention of conventional entertainment and communication services to enhance programming recording and viewing of multimedia such as broadcast television programs. Traditionally broadcast media being based on pre computer age technology has developed on its own path without any regard to other media systems. With readily available cost effective broadband services bandwidth intensive applications such as audio and video streaming have become viable mediums. Unfortunately little or no effort has been put forth to converge these distinct paths or enable seamless integration between traditional broadcast systems and broadband data networks to provide more robust content delivery systems. Furthermore lack of convergence of these systems limits the user s experience of direct interactivity with their content delivery system.

Therefore there is a need for an approach that can efficiently and effectively provide support for direct user interaction with specific items of content as presented by a content delivery system.

A preferred apparatus method and software for interacting with a set top box using widgets are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.

Although various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to a set top box STB it is contemplated that these embodiments have applicability to any device capable of processing content e.g. audio video AV signals for presentation to a user such as a home communication terminal HCT a digital home communication terminal DHCT a stand alone personal video recorder PVR a television set a digital video disc DVD player a video enabled phone an audio video enabled personal digital assistant PDA and or a personal computer PC or media presentation device as well as other like technologies and customer premises equipment CPE .

In accordance with an embodiment a subscriber or user of a content delivery service i.e. cable television or media subscription service can seamlessly select one or more items presented as content to interact with in a virtual environment through activation of the widget. The widget presented to the user via the STB as a virtual device that overlays at least a portion of the content as presented on screen further enables various opportunities for the user to alter modify or otherwise engage with a selected item within the environment. Alternatively the widget is positioned in a separate frame from the content as presented to the display so as to not overlay any portion of the content. Either implementation is suitable for implementation with respect to the embodiments presented herein. User interaction with the widget which itself provides user access to an interactive platform in association with a content delivery system can be facilitated by way of physical push buttons of the STB or peripheral devices thereof or remote control access to a media manager or media agent.

In addition the widget features various functions that enable the user to communicate with others including vendors as well as engage in purchase transactions with a vendor associated with a particular item. So for example a user watching their favorite sitcom as it is broadcast presented via their STB can press a button of the widget to purchase clothes accessories furnishings or any other items presented during the show. In addition they can capture an image or snapshot of the content communicate with a third party in relation one or more items as presented receive information about the item etc. The user may select a single or multiple items presented as content and view and interact with a representation of the items in the virtual environment as activated by way of the widget.

In addition to the exemplary uses described above additional ways of enabling engagement of items or representations thereof within the virtual environment via the widget in connection with the STB may include enabling the placement of clothing items as worn by a particular actor on virtual mannequins a user customized avatar or other virtual object. The virtual object respective to the clothing item which may also be displayed as a virtual representation of the clothing item as broadcast can then for example be rotated 360 degrees to enable full viewing by the user. In addition mannequins or avatar characteristics may be modified by inputting waist height and other physical characteristics to more closely resemble the user of the STB.

Furthermore the arrangement can enable the viewing of household fixtures e.g. a sofa as featured in a broadcast to be viewed in a virtual living area depicted in the virtual environment to match the surroundings of the user. The user can adapt wall colors dimensions orientation and other characteristics relative to the sofa so as to entertain various possibilities respective to the item. As a further means of interaction or engagement the user may choose to place any selected item s i.e. clothing sofa in a virtual shopping cart in which to carry out a purchase transaction. Alternatively the user may initiate multiple shopping carts for comparison purposes that can be maintained for a period of time. It is contemplated that numerous other interactive examples are possible. In this manner the virtual environment can provide user engagement with the items in a manner suitable for facilitating and aiding the purchase process. As will be discussed in a later the widget may also enable a user to interact with content for purposes other than purchase transactions i.e. research general inquiries etc. More regarding the capabilities of the widget as it operates with respect to and concurrent with a STB is presented with respect to .

According to other exemplary embodiments platform may be configured to interface with one or more application programming interfaces API of one or more third party content provider systems in order to facilitate subscriber interaction with their corresponding subscriber accounts associated with these third party content provider systems . Still further broadcasters and content programmers may provide the third party content providers with specialized APIs suitable for enhancing the user s ability to interact with presented content in the context of specific television programming options. In this manner platform may interact with content based services of third party content provider systems in ways that facilitate maximum engagement of the user content and vendors or affiliates associated therewith. While specific reference will be made hereto it is contemplated that system may embody many forms and include multiple and or alternative components and facilities.

It is observed that television remains the prevalent global medium for accessing entertainment and information based content sources as individuals spend a great deal of time tuning into televised media. Furthermore television is still the predominant means of marketing goods and services oftentimes being used as a platform to present the newest or reflect the current trends of the day. On demand shopping networks infomercials telethons commercials and other forms of advertisement supported by way of direct broadcasting do not support on demand interaction with the item being advertised. Moreover while effective the ability of the user to exercise full discretion over the items they want to pursue for on demand purchase is limited. For example if a shopping network is directed towards the presentation of content that includes a designer handbag for purchase as presented by a hand model the user does not have the ability to select the bracelet as worn by the hand model as being of interest to them. Hence users are generally limited in their ability to selectively account for items of interest to them let alone control the context mode or nature of the interaction. It is noted however that as the sophistication of today s content delivery systems and services increases so too will user demand for increased control and interaction with select items of content especially for the purposes of facilitating consumption of the items.

For example internet protocol television IPTV service providers currently offer subscribers various content based services ranging from multi channel video programming that mimics traditional broadcast television to true video on demand VOD programming. These services are further supplemented with interactive video applications that enable robust programming information selection and navigation functionality as well as integrated digital video recording and data services that enhance the video experience. Subsequently it is recognized that convenient access to third party content provider systems will inevitably pave the way for new value added services made available through conventional broadcast content provider infrastructures. Thus the approach of system according to certain exemplary embodiments stems from the recognition that consumers can benefit from the ability to engage via for instance STB based environments items as selected from content on demand.

As such system includes service provider network that is configured to integrate television based media with that of the telecommunications computing and associated media environments thereby broadening the scope of sources and technology available to consumers for interacting with media and or multimedia content hereinafter collectively referred to as media content. In this manner system allows content as presented within a broadcast to be interacted with via any suitable content processing device e.g. an STB. According to exemplary embodiments media manager which is implemented by content processing device includes one or more computer program instructions or code that may be stored to for example one or more computer readable mediums e.g. one or more memories not shown of content processing device that when executed by for example one or more processors not illustrated of content processing device are configured to cause content processing device at least to present content streamed from one or more third party sources e.g. third party content provider system content repository etc. available over one or more data networks by for instance media agent .

In this manner media agent which may be implemented by computing device may also include one or more computer program instructions or code that may be stored to for instance one or more computer readable mediums e.g. one or more memories not illustrated of computing device that when executed by for example one or more processors not shown of computing device are configured to cause computing device to retrieve content from the one or more third party sources such as third party content provider system content repository and the like and stream the retrieved content to media manager for presentation via content processing device . It is noted that media agent may be configured to transcode or otherwise convert the retrieved content from a first format to a second format before or during streaming of the retrieved content to content processing device . This stream of content is referred to herein as a virtual channel of content.

In other exemplary embodiments media manager and or media agent may when executed by for instance the one or more respective processors of content processing device and or computing device be configured to cause content processing device and or computing device to enable users to interface with platform in order to easily effectively and intuitively select items to with over one or more data networks for presentation via content processing device as one or more virtual channels of content. Still further media manager and or media agent may when executed by for instance the one or more respective processors of content processing device and or computing device be configured to cause content processing device and or computing device to enable users to access and thereby interact with one or more features associated with subscriber accounts corresponding to these third party content provider systems . As such embodiments of the service provider network may also enable individuals utilizing content processing devices to interact with one another through personalized communications channels to further facilitate the processes described herein.

As used herein media content broadly includes any audio visual content e.g. broadcast television programs VOD programs pay per view programs IPTV feeds DVD related content etc. pre recorded media content data communication services content e.g. commercials advertisements videos movies songs images sounds etc. Internet services content streamed audio video or image media and or any other equivalent media form. In this manner MSP may provide in addition to their own media content content obtained from sources such as one or more television broadcast systems one or more third party content provider systems content residing in a networked repository etc. as well as content available via one or more data networks or telephony networks etc.

MSP can provide media content that is retrieved over data network s as well as provide conventional media streams. For instance MSP may provide virtual channels to content traditionally limited to third party content provider systems such as host sites e.g. end user originated content uploaded to and thereby shared via audio video and or image sharing sites. Additionally the media content may include streamed audio and or video from conventional broadcast providers.

Media manager and media agent may be executable for example as one or more user interfaces capable of local implementation on content processing device or on a computing device such as a computer telephony device mobile device and or any other like user device. Thus exemplary embodiments of media manager and media agent may be provided through navigation shell applications e.g. menu applications having options corresponding to different functions. By way of example computer devices may include desktop computers notebook computers servers terminal workstations gaming systems customized hardware or other equivalent apparatus. Telephony devices may comprise plain old telephones wireless telephones cellular telephones satellite telephones voice over internet protocol telephones and the like. Mobile devices may include personal digital assistants PDA pocket personal computers smart phones tablets handsets portable gaming systems and customized hardware as well as other mobile technologies capable transmitting data. Moreover content processing device may be used alone or in combination with one or more computing devices to implement various exemplary embodiments.

Content processing devices and or computing device may be configured to communicate using one or more of networks and . These systems can include a public data network e.g. the Internet various intranets local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN the public switched telephony network PSTN integrated services digital networks ISDN other private packet switched networks or telephony networks as well as any additional equivalent system or combination thereof. These networks may employ various access technologies including cable networks satellite networks subscriber television networks digital subscriber line DSL networks optical fiber networks hybrid fiber coax networks worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX networks wireless fidelity WiFi networks other wireless networks e.g. 3G wireless broadband networks mobile television networks radio networks etc. terrestrial broadcasting networks provider specific networks e.g. fiber optic networks cable networks etc and the like. Such networks may also utilize any suitable protocol supportive of data communications e.g. transmission control protocol TCP internet protocol IP file transfer protocol FTP telnet hypertext transfer protocol HTTP hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS asynchronous transfer mode ATM socket connections Ethernet frame relay and the like to connect content processing devices to various sources of media content such as one or more third party content provider systems . Although depicted in as separate networks data network and or telephony network may be completely or partially contained within service provider network . For example service provider network may include facilities to provide for transport of packet based and or telephony communications.

By way of example content processing devices as well as computing device may be configured in conjunction with the widget to remotely access one or more servers not shown via corresponding communication interfaces not illustrated that are configured to execute multiple instances of either media manager or media agent . That is these media applications may be provided in a distributed fashion using for instance client server architectures such as implemented by enterprise application service providers ASP . It is noted that ASP models and other like architectures offer system scalability in terms of administrative scalability geographic scalability and or load scalability. Thus distributed environments are attractive modes for disseminating system functionality to a broad spectrum of users and devices.

For example the aforementioned server may be an online system capable of communicating with one or more third party web servers not illustrated content repositories e.g. repository or equivalent facilities to provide users various avenues to locate specify search select receive and or share media content that is accessible over one or more data networks such as made accessible via third party content provider system . For example exemplary embodiments of media applications may comprise hypertext markup language HTML user interfaces or JAVA applets stored to the server and accessed via world wide web pages. These interfaces are particularly useful in extending system functionality to devices having limited resources e.g. PDAs handsets thin clients etc. . In alternative embodiments the server may be collocated with and or integrated into MSP . As such multiple users interfaces and instances of media applications can be simultaneously realized through system .

According to other embodiments media manager and media agent may be configured to communicate over one or more local area networks corresponding to user premises that are facilitated by way of corresponding home routers . In this manner routers may be used for establishing and operating or at least connecting to a network such as a home network or LAN and is used to route communications within user premises . It is noted that routers may provide for network connectivity not only for one or more computing devices but also for network connectivity for content processing device . For example content processing device may be a set top box communicatively coupled to router via coaxial cable whereas computing devices may be connected to router via wireless connection a network cable e.g. ethernet cable and or the like. It is noted however that in certain embodiments content processing device may be configured to establish connectivity with router via one or more wireless connections. Further content processing device and computing device may be uniquely identified by router via any suitable addressing scheme. For example router may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to content processing device and computing devices i.e. IP addresses that are accessible to devices such as devices and that are part of a LAN facilitated via router i.e. connected to router .

Accordingly it is noted that user premises may be geospatially associated with one or more regions. As such content processing devices associated with these user premises may be configured to communicate with and receive signals and or data streams from MSP or other transmission facility e.g. third party content provider system in response to processes of one or more of media manager and media agent . These signals may include media content retrieved over a data network e.g. service provider network data network and or telephony network as well as conventional video broadcast content.

MSP can include one or more media content servers not illustrated and or data repositories not shown . Alternatively user profile repository content repository or the aforementioned server may be accessed via one or more of service provider network and or data networks . Further service provider network may include a system administrator not shown for operational and management functions to deploy the virtual channel services using for instance an internet protocol television IPTV system. In this manner content processing devices may utilize any suitable technology to draw receive and or transmit media content from to MSP or any other suitable content source sink such as third party content provider system .

In an exemplary embodiment content processing devices may draw receive and or transmit content from or to multiple sources thereby alleviating the burden on any single source e.g. MSP to gather supply or otherwise meet the content demands of any user or premise. Thus particular embodiments enable authenticated third party television broadcast systems third party content provider systems and servers not shown to transmit media content accessible over a data network to content processing devices either apart from or in conjunction with MSP . Such media content may include media regarding traffic news drama sports current events breaking stories commentary headlines advertisements solicitations financial advice stocks markets events schools governments blog entries podcasts and the like. Moreover media content may be available from authenticated sources including grassroots groups or individuals non profits governmental organizations public private institutions etc.

The media content may be distinguished or otherwise categorized utilizing metadata included therewith or appended thereto. Metadata can be generally considered data about data but more specifically it can be utilized to describe all aspects of and media content distributed by system . Namely metadata can include descriptions about data aspects file name type administrator size location version or include timestamps mode bits arbitrary attribute value pairs etc. titles activities events individuals and organizations involved intended audiences e.g. ethnicities ages genders incomes educational levels disabilities mobilities as well as other like demographic statistics geospatial identifications intended zip codes school districts communities etc. locations of supplementary information and processes access methods limitations timing of activities events e.g. start end dates as well as motivations policies and rules. As such metadata may be utilized by various components of system for control or guiding purposes. According to certain embodiments content aggregation platform may be configured to aggregate and maintain one or more repositories e.g. metadata repository of this metadata for users to search and receive media content from one or more third party content provider systems or any other suitable source.

In particular embodiments system may structure and encode metadata to describe characteristics of the content bearing entities to aid in the identification discovery assessment and furthermore rendering of items to a virtual environment for enabling user interaction with the item in connection with media manager and or media agent . For example the metadata can be used to optimize compression algorithms or perform other computational tasks by the components of system . The metadata might be utilized to share media content among a plurality of content processing devices . Various other embodiments might use metadata to provide search results suggest media content sources of interest to a user based on information stored in a user profile and the like.

In various embodiments service provider network may include one or more video and or audio processing modules not shown for acquiring and transmitting content feeds including media content accessible over a data network from MSP the television broadcast systems the third party content provider systems or servers not shown over one or more of the networks and to particular content processing devices . As such service provider network may include facilities to support compression decompression coding decoding modulation demodulation optical electrical conversion and analog digital conversion as well as any other suitable signal processing and or transmission operation. Further service provider network may optionally support end to end data encryption in conjunction with media content streaming services such that only authorized users are able to experience content and interact with other legitimate users sources.

Accordingly system may include an authentication module not shown configured to perform authorization authentication services and determine whether users or content sources are indeed subscribers to or providers of the virtual channel service. An authentication schema may require a user name and password a key access number a unique machine identifier e.g. media access control MAC address etc. as well as a combination thereof. Once a subscriber has authenticated a presence on system the user may bypass additional authentication procedures for executing later applications e.g. media content streaming instances . Data packets such as cookies may be utilized for this purpose however other authentication information may be utilized such as described below. Thus once a content processing device and or source is authenticated connections between content processing devices and the content sources may be established directly or through MSP and or computing device .

In other embodiments authentication procedures on a first device e.g. content processing device may identify and authenticate a second device e.g. computing device communicatively coupled to or associated with the first device. Further the authentication module may grant users the right to receive media content from multiple system sources by revoking existing sets of digital certificates associated with a particular provider and issuing new sets of digital certificates mapped to a second provider. In this regard a content processing device may receive new media content from a second source whereas the previous session may be automatically closed when the old or prior certificates associated with the first source are revoked. This enables users to initiate secure sessions at any given content processing device or computing device linked to system whether or not the content processing device or computing device belongs to that individual user. It is additionally contemplated that multiple rights sessions may exist concurrently.

In particular embodiments MSP may comprise an IPTV system configured to support the transmission of television video programs from the broadcast systems as well as other content such as media content from the various third party sources e.g. and utilizing internet protocol IP . That is the IPTV system may deliver signals and or streams including media content accessible over a data network in the form of IP packets. Further the transmission network e.g. service provider network may optionally support end to end data encryption in conjunction with the streaming services as previously mentioned.

In this manner the use of IP permits television services to be integrated with broadband Internet services and thus share common connections to a user site. Also IP packets can be more readily manipulated and therefore provide users with greater flexibility in terms of control and offers superior methods for increasing the availability of media content including content accessible over data networks . Delivery of video content by way of example may be through a unicast or multicast from the IPTV system or third party content provider system computing device etc. to the content processing devices . Any individual content processing device may tune to a particular source e.g. virtual channel by simply joining a multicast or unicast of the media content utilizing an IP group membership protocol IGMP . For instance the IGMP v2 protocol may be employed for joining content processing devices to new multicast or unicast groups. Such a manner of content delivery avoids the need for expensive tuners to view media content such as television broadcasts however other delivery methods such as directly modulated carriers e.g. national television systems committee NTSC advanced television systems committee ATSC quadrature amplitude modulation QAM may still be utilized. It is noted that conventional delivery methods may also be implemented and combined with the advanced methods of system . Further the media content in the form of virtual channels may be provided to various IP enabled devices such as those computing telephony and mobile apparatuses previously delineated.

As such exemplary content processing devices e.g. STBs may integrate all the functions of an IPTV system as well as combine the media content functions of the various online or off line environments in a manner that seamlessly toggles among the various system resources. It is contemplated that the virtual channel service may be extended to users with a presence on the Internet. In alternative embodiments the services of system could be extended to users having an end terminal not shown such as a plain old telephone service POTS device connected to the telephony network . While system is illustrated in the exemplary components are not intended to be limiting and indeed additional or alternative components and or implementations may be utilized.

In certain embodiments content processing module may be configured to maintain one or more networked repositories e.g. repository of aggregated metadata relating to media content available via a plurality of third party content provider systems . For instance the metadata may relate to thumbnails uniform resource locators titles addressing information descriptions sources ratings tags durations media types publishing dates number of views height width size author etc. Still further the content processing module may access metadata of various types pertaining to specific items of content for enabling processing of specific items including but not limited to data indicating a media content or item identifier value a point in time of presentation of the item as media content a mode of orientation of the item corresponding to a point in time of presentation of media content a purchase order or transaction record a scene identifier a sequence identifier etc. Hence in accordance with certain embodiments the content processing module may be configured to process i.e. identify delineate mark distinguish specific items of content based at least in part on the metadata. By contextually recognizing specific items the items are thus made available for interaction with e.g. within a virtual environment by the content processing module upon demand by a user.

Consider for example a specific scene of a movie that is presented to the STB as media content. In a particular mode of operation in accordance with certain embodiments the content processing module receives or retrieves metadata pertaining to certain if not all of the items comprising the scene in advance of or during presentation of the content to the STB . The decision to access metadata in advance of or during depends on known processing speeds for the STB data network access conditions or other factors. When processing speeds and or network conditions are determinably slower the content processing module may be configured to access metadata in advance of presentation of content.

In another mode of operation in accordance with certain embodiments the content processing module executes one or more instructions for identifying delineating marking and or distinguishing items of content based at least in part on the metadata as retrieved or received. As such specific items may be recognized identified by the content processing module as an item eligible for user interaction. Hence the content processing module automatically itemizes particular items presented within the movie scene e.g. objects people advertisements based at least in part on the metadata. Media manager and or media agent may be configured in connection with the content processing module to specify media content or particular items thereof for representation within a virtual environment via computing device and or content processing device for presentation.

According to certain embodiments platform may not be permitted to or may simply not maintain metadata associated with the media content made available via one or more third party content provider systems . As such search engine module is configured to receive query information and authentication information of a user from a media application e.g. media manager and or media agent associated with for instance content processing device such as set top box and generate a query request for specific items of media content from one or more third party content provider systems using the query information the authentication information and an identifier of a service provider of system . In this manner search engine module may be configured in conjunction with user interface to initiate transmission of the query request to the one or more third party content provider systems and thereby receive one or more search results in response to the query request.

In the context of a potential purchase transaction for example the query can be directed towards providing details e.g. purchase price vendor details manufacturer details product information etc. regarding a specific item of media content. In the context of a research transaction for example the query can be directed towards acquiring historic present day popular news social data or other related information about a specific item of media content. In the context of a game transaction for example the query can be directed towards acquiring clues hints or suggestions regarding a specific item of media content. Indeed various types of query may be appropriately performed by the search engine module relative to a specific item of media content. In some instances where query results cannot be satisfactorily fulfilled because of various reasons e.g. absence of data relative to a given item in a database the database may be updated with a record of the item or associated information accordingly i.e. as part of a historical log of items of interest for a particular user. It is noted that search engine module via for example user interface module may also be configured to initiate transmission of the one or more search results to the media application for presentation via content processing device and or computing device .

According to certain embodiments platform may further include one or more controllers or processors for effectuating the aforementioned features and functions of platform as well as one or more repositories for permanent and or temporary storage of one or more of the aforementioned variables parameters information signals messages identifiers addresses locators etc. In this manner the features and functions of platform may be executed by platform such as in response to controller s or other components of platform executing computer program code or other instructions stored to a datastore .

According to certain embodiments platform may further include a virtual environment module . The virtual environment module performs various instructions for generating a virtual environment that includes at least an image or virtual representation of a specific media item i.e. such as specified by way of a content processing module . In addition the virtual environment module performs one of more instruction for rending presentation of a specific media item based at least in part on an input from a user via the set top box in connection with the widget. Still further the virtual environment module operates in connection with the various other modules for generating an interactive environment suitable for enabling user interaction with an image video 3D model or other representation of specific media content items of interest. For example the virtual environment module may operate in connection with the user interface module to render to a graphical user interface e.g. display of the STB providing a split screen including the media content and an image or other representation of a selected item of media content. In relation to the item of interest other objects may be rendered in association with a given item of media content. As another example the virtual environment module may operate in connection with the search engine module and user interface module to enable presentation of query results within the generated virtual environment associated with a specific item of interest. It is noted that the virtual environment module is operable in connection with the interactive platform so as to enable a widget to be presented concurrent with media content via the set top box or other content delivery system.

According to certain embodiments platform may further include an online transaction module for operation in connection with the virtual environment module to facilitate purchase of specific media content items of interest. Specifically the online transaction module transmits a request initiated by a user of a set top box operable concurrent with a widget to execute a transaction for the purchase of the selected item. Purchase processing related functions executable by the online transaction module may include but is not limited to enabling placement of select items into a shopping cart maintaining a wish list of items to purchase or investigate segregating items or transactions into one or more shopping carts enabling payment processing facilitating shipment of items enabling recall of items selected for purchase etc. It is noted that any means of facilitating purchase processing of items of interest may be executed by the online transaction module notwithstanding operation of the module in connection with the various other modules.

Thus under the arrangements of a user may receive and view media content as well as interact with select items of media concurrent with the transmission of media content over one or more data networks . An environment for facilitating interaction by way of a STB concurrent with a widget is enabled relative to any media content to facilitate various user related transactions in connection with a content delivery system i.e. purchase transaction research transaction entertainment transaction.

Accordingly device may comprise computing hardware such as described with respect to and include additional components configured to provide specialized services related to the reception and display of media content such as one or more remote control capabilities conditional access functions tuning functions presentation functions multiple network interfaces audio video signal ports and the like. Alternatively or additionally the functions and operations of device may be governed by one or more controllers that interacts with the components of device to provide media content retrieved from for example third party media content provider system or any other suitable component or facility of system . In turn a user may be afforded greater functionality utilizing a control device to control these services functions interfaces etc. as will be more apparent below.

As such device may be configured to process a content stream including causing media application e.g. media manager and or one or more components of the media content e.g. video component and or an audio component to be presented on or at display . Presentation of the media content may include displaying recording playing rewinding forwarding toggling selecting zooming or any other processing technique that enables users to experience one or more content streams. For instance device may provide one or more signals to display e.g. a television set so that display may present e.g. display media manager overlaid on the media content e.g. video to a user wherein the media content includes content retrieved over one or more data networks such as from third party content provider system . Moreover display can present the GUI of to permit a user to select items corresponding to the media content for consumption.

Device may also interact with a PVR such as digital video recorder DVR to store received signals that can then be manipulated by a user at a later point in time. In various embodiments DVR may be network based e.g. included as a part of service provider network collocated at a subscriber site e.g. user premise having connectivity to device and or integrated into device . Display may present media content provided via device to a user. In alternative embodiments device may be configured to communicate with a number of additional peripheral devices including computing device laptops PDAs cellular phones monitors mobile devices handheld devices as well as any other equivalent technology capable of presenting media content to a user such as those computing telephony and mobile user devices described with respect to .

These peripherals may be configured to implement instances of media manager to access media content stored and or processed by device . For example a media content stream may be received by device and recorded by DVR wherein computing device may later access and view the stored content. Moreover the peripheral devices may be configured to program or otherwise control various functions of device . For instance a media application e.g. media agent executed via computing device may receive input from a user specifying media content that is accessible via third party content provider system . As such a communication interface not illustrated of computing device may be configured to retrieve the media content over one or more data networks transcode the media content in certain instances and thereby stream the media content to device for presentation. As such device may receive a media content stream from computing device to present to a user via display .

In another embodiment user input to device and or a peripheral device e.g. computing device executing an instance of a media manager application may cause one or more search results to be received and thereby made available to device or another content processing device computing device telephony device or mobile device capable of processing audio and or video streams associated with the search results. Still further user input to a media application such as media manager and or media agent may be configured to program or otherwise control the functions of device . For instance a user may access media agent via computing device and thereby search for locate select and or specify media content to be retrieved over one or more data networks and thereby streamed to device or any other suitable user device. In this manner third party content provider system and other components facilities of system such as MSP may when suitable transmit e.g. stream specified media content to device for presentation via display .

Furthermore device may include communication interface which may be configured to receive content streams from an MSP computing device and or other media content sources such as third party content provider system . Communication interface may optionally include single or multiple port interfaces. For example device may establish a broadband connection to multiple sources transmitting content to device via a single port whereas in alternative embodiments multiple ports may be assigned to the one or more sources. In still other embodiments communication interface may be configured to permit users via device to transmit data including media content to third party content provider systems to other users with content processing devices MSP and or any other suitable media content source sink.

According to various embodiments device may also include inputs outputs e.g. connectors to display and DVR as well as to audio system . In particular audio system may comprise a conventional audio video receiver capable of monaural or stereo sound as well as multichannel surround sound. Audio system may include speakers ear buds headphones or any other suitable component configured for personal or public dissemination. As such device display DVR and audio system for example may support high resolution audio and or video streams such as high definition television HDTV or digital theater systems high definition DTS HD audio. Thus device may be configured to encapsulate data into a proper format with required credentials before transmitting onto one or more of the networks of and de encapsulate incoming traffic to dispatch data to display and or audio system .

In an exemplary embodiment display and or audio system may be configured with internet protocol IP capability i.e. includes an IP stack or is otherwise network addressable such that the functions of device may be assumed by display and or audio system . In this manner an IP ready HDTV display or DTS HD audio system may be directly connected to one or more service provider networks data networks and or telephony networks . Although device display DVR and audio system are shown separately it is contemplated that these components may be integrated into a single component or other combination of components.

An authentication module may be provided by device to initiate or respond to authentication schemes of for instance service provider network third party content provider systems or various other content providers e.g. broadcast television systems etc. Authentication module may provide sufficient authentication information e.g. a user name and password a key access number a unique machine identifier e.g. MAC address and the like as well as combinations thereof to a corresponding network interface for establishing connectivity such as router . As described earlier one or more digital certificates may be simultaneously mapped. Moreover authentication at device may identify and authenticate a second device e.g. computing device communicatively coupled to or associated with device or vice versa. Further authentication information may be stored locally at memory in a repository not shown connected to device or at a remote repository e.g. user profile repository .

Authentication module may also facilitate the reception of data from single or disparate sources. For instance device may receive broadcast video from a first source e.g. MSP signals from a media application at second source e.g. computing device and a media content stream from a third source accessible over data networks e.g. third party content provider system . As such display may present the broadcast video media application and media content stream to the user wherein device in conjunction with one or more media applications can permit users to experience various sources of media content traditionally limited to the data domains. This presentation may be experienced separately concurrently in a toggled fashion or with zooming maximizing minimizing or trick capabilities or equivalent mode. In other exemplary embodiments authentication module can authenticate a user to allow them to interact with one or more third party subscriber account features associated with third party content provider systems .

Presentation module may be configured to receive media content streams e.g. audio video feed s including media content retrieved over a data network and output a result via one or more connectors to display and or audio system . In this manner presentation module may also provide a user interface for a media application via display . Aural aspects of media applications may be presented via audio system and or display . In certain embodiments media applications such as media manager may be overlaid on the video content output of display via presentation module .

In any case however the media content streams may include content received in response to user input specifying media content that is accessible by way of one or more third party content provider systems and thereby available over at least one data network wherein the media content may be retrieved by media agent and streamed to device for presentation via display and or audio system . Accordingly presentation module may be configured to provide lists of search results and or identifiers to users for selection of media content to be experienced. Exemplary search results and or identifiers may include graphical elements channels aural notices or any other signifier such as a uniform resource locator URL phone number serial number registration number MAC address code etc.

Connector s may provide various physical interfaces to display audio system as well as other peripherals the physical interfaces may include for example RJ45 RJ11 high definition multimedia interface HDMI optical coax FireWire wireless and universal serial bus USB or any other suitable connector. The presentation module may also interact with control device for determining particular media content that a user desires to experience. In an exemplary embodiment control device may comprise a remote control or other access device having control capability such as computing device a wireless user device mobile phone etc. that provides users with the ability to readily manipulate and dynamically modify parameters affecting the media content being viewed. In other examples device may be configured for voice recognition such that device may be controlled with spoken utterances.

In this manner control device may include not shown a cursor controller trackball touch screen touch pad keyboard and or a key pad for activating a media application navigating through broadcast channels search results and or media content identifiers as well as performing other control functions. For instance control device may be utilized to maximize a media application navigate through displayable interfaces locate specify retrieve media content modify device parameters or toggle through broadcast channels and or media content identifiers. Control device may also include functional actuators e.g. buttons keys icons etc. such as power on of play pause stop fast forward reverse volume up down channel up down menu ok enter record info my content search edit or exit as well as any other suitable control trigger such as alphanumeric buttons shift control back symbols and the like.

Further control device may comprise a memory not illustrated for storing preferences affecting media content viewed which can be conveyed to device through an input interface . Input interface may support any type of wired and or wireless link e.g. infrared radio frequency RF BLUETOOTH and the like. Thus control device may store user preferences with respect to media content such as favorite sources etc. Alternatively user preferences may be tracked recorded or stored at device or at a network user profile repository . The preferences may be automatically retrieved and activated by a user at any time. It is noted that control device may be separate from device or may be integrated within device in which case certain input interface hardware and or software may be superfluous.

Particular embodiments enable users via control device to populate or otherwise configure a user profile. For instance a user profile application may be provided or accessed by device to enable users to populate a plurality of entry fields with user information. A user profile may include one or more customized or personalized settings that affect any aspect of media content accessible via device . More specifically the profile may include subscription information account number user name password avatar moniker etc. subscriber demographics age gender ethnicity location of residence zip code school district community socioeconomic status religion marital status ownerships languages mobility life cycles etc. group organizational affiliations e.g. political memberships interests buddies friends cohorts system configurations policies associated users devices etc. as well as any other like personal information. Additionally a user profile may include a whitelist specifying one or more accessible media content sources subjects a blacklist specifying one or more media content sources subjects as well as other equivalent customized settings such as color schemes sound effects etc.

In other embodiments the user profile may be established using the additional access devices described earlier e.g. computing device etc. As such user profile information may be stored at device e.g. at memory and or at a user site repository not illustrated directly connected to device . Additionally or alternatively profile information may be stored in a network based repository e.g. remote user profile repository control device and or any other storage medium. Similarly device via memory a user site repository and or a network based repository may store a MY CONTENT collection of digital audio video and or image content accumulated by a user. This collection may also include a plurality of identifiers links search results or bookmarks to media content accessible over one or more data networks wherein selection of a particular identifier link search result or bookmark may cause one or more media applications to obtain the content from an associated link either directly from a data network source e.g. content repository or indirectly from third party content provider system and or MSP .

Thus under the above arrangements of a user may experience e.g. search for locate specify and receive content as well as consume items presented within media content.

As in step the interactive platform e.g. content processing module processes media content in order to output a plurality of items specified in the content. This processing may include itemizing the media content to determine the various items comprising the content. In step the interactive platform performs a check of its repository database to determine whether anyone of the items is represented therein or absent from the database . This determining step may be performed by the controller operating in connection with the content processing module of the interactive platform . Next per step the database is updated based on the determined one or more of absent items from the database. The updating process may include performing an online search by the search engine module to ascertain details regarding the item i.e. based on minimally known metadata or facts about the item. Metadata or facts known about another recognizable item within the content may also be associated with the item in certain instances or user specified input regarding the item as received via the user interface module or virtual environment module of the platform may be accepted and stored to the database. Once updated a further step of receiving a request from the user of the STB specifying one of the items during presentation of content can be processed by the interactive platform . It is noted that the presentation of content as referenced in this embodiment may refer to that as broadcast or as presented within the virtual environment in either case via the STB.

As the user views the media content a popup window or other indicator may be displayed not shown in figure to the screen prompting the user to activate the information button if the user is interested in any merchandise shown on the screen e.g. items . In the context of a non purchase transaction the user could also be prompted to activate the information button to get details about the movie being broadcast or access details about the specific actress being rendered to the display . In the former case the user initiates a request for information regarding one or more items e.g. merchandise of interest corresponding to step of . By activating the information button such as via remote control manipulation of a media manager associated with the STB the user is prompted with an itemized list featuring the various items that are included in the media content as presented. This corresponds to a list of items available for interaction within a virtual environment facilitated by the widget interactive platform . From the list the user may choose a specific item to further engage or interact with. In this example the user selects the coffee mug .

As a next step the STB renders to the display via the widget GUI that includes an interactive virtual display environment as shown in . The virtual environment is rendered concurrently with the television broadcast content such that the overall display features both real time media content as broadcast and the virtual environment . In this example the virtual environment comprises about one third of the overall screen space although in other implementations a split screen mode or other presentation option may be employed. It is noted that the virtual environment is executable in connection with the real time broadcast as opposed to a freeze frame or replayed rendering. This is shown in wherein the actress of representing an initial point in time is no longer present in the scene of representing the current point in time.

As shown the virtual environment depicts at least a representation of the coffee mug in this case as a 3D model capable of being rotated by the user via a control mechanism . Having retrieved details regarding the coffee mug by way of the search engine module or from data repository this information is presented to the user via the virtual environment . Details presented may include but is not limited to the name of the vendor product name and type URL and contact information for the vendor special feature info etc. Also shown prominently for display to the user within the environment is the price information as well as a virtual shopping cart for indicating the number of items the user currently has arranged for purchase e.g. 3 items .

As another feature of the virtual environment the representation of the coffee mug can be personalized with captions or art . Upon selecting the Add Personalized Caption button the user is presented with a text entry field or virtual keyboard for enabling them to generate text. The text may be further depicted as an overlay atop the virtual representation of the mug with appropriately detailed vector scaling curvature etc. to depict what the coffee mug would look like upon delivery. Upon selecting the Add Art button the user is presented with various icons graphics images etc. that may be may be affixed to printed upon the coffee mug . The art may be further depicted as an overlay atop the virtual representation of the mug with appropriately detailed vector scaling curvature etc. to depict what the coffee mug would look like upon delivery.

The above presented interactions which includes reviewing data modifying and manipulating the virtual representation of the item of interest personalization and customization etc. corresponds to step of . In step the user may place the coffee mug into the shopping cart to facilitate purchase processing. In the context of the virtual environment this may be performed by the user simply moving the 3D model of the coffee mug into the shopping cart . Thereafter the user may complete the transaction by providing appropriate payment information deleting items from the shopping cart adding the items to a wish list sharing the shopping cart with others placing the shopping cart transaction on hold etc. The shopping cart may be held for a period of time allotted by the interactive platform . A reminder may be displayed prior to shopping cart removal giving the user ample opportunity to act upon the purchase. The customer may also browse through history of items of media content that they have viewed for a period of time allotted. If purchase is however confirmed the payment is processed and the order is placed with vendor for delivery to the shipping address indicated by the user.

It is contemplated that the above described interactions and engagements with the coffee mug or associated representation are facilitated via the media manager of the STB in connection with the widget interactive platform . Also in accordance with some embodiments the widget may feature additional action buttons for enabling various other means of interaction between the user and a selected item of interest. For example the computing action button of may enable the user to perform a query regarding a particular item of interest send an electronic communication to the vendor or other interested party upload other items for use within the virtual environment relative to a given object model e.g. a 3D model representative of a saucer upon which the coffee mug may be placed etc. The capture button may enable the user to capture an image or listing of all of the items featured at the moment of broadcast obtain a snapshot of specific items as interacted with in the virtual environment etc. The call button may enable the auto dialing of a vendor or other interested party via telephony network to facilitate over the phone purchase processing.

Still further although not shown additional actions executable upon media content by way of the widget may include the ability to rotate the screenshot so as to view items not presently shown in the current view the ability to alternate to a panoramic view setting to enable more items to be shown the ability to place information tags on specific items of interest e.g. price tags product descriptions as they are presented as content etc. Indeed the widget as presented is exemplary in nature and may feature various other execution options enabled at the discretion of the content delivery system provider.

According to certain embodiments the above arrangement and associated processes advantageously enhances user experience while augmenting the service offerings of a service provider to thereby enable more sources of revenue. The integration of content delivery and online commerce moreover provides great convenience for users to engage in electronic commerce without having to boot up a computer to then find the items of interest.

The processes described herein for providing direct user interaction with specific items of content as presented by a content delivery system may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein including for providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage media or non transitory media i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to presenting a slideshow via a set top box. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

