---

title: Media content notification via communications network
abstract: The notification system identifies media content based on personal preferences of individual users and provides notification of identified media content to the users. In one embodiment, the system includes a number of user nodes that communicate with a registration site and a notification site via the interne. The notification site includes a media content database and a processor running contents election logic. The processor accesses the media content database in order to identify content that may be of interest to particular users of the user nodes. In this regard, content for a particular user may be identified by matching interest information obtained from the registration site with the content information of the media content database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08666808&OS=08666808&RS=08666808
owner: PanaLogIn LLC
number: 08666808
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110104
---
This application is a continuation patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 444 856 filed May 22 2003 and entitled Media Content Notification Via Communications Network now U.S. Pat. No. 7 865 395 which is a continuation patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 407 000 filed Sep. 28 1999 and entitled Media Content Notification Via Communications Network now U.S. Pat. No. 6 591 245 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 102 115 filed Sep. 28 1998 and entitled Program Notification Via Data Network and Ser. No. 09 407 000 is a continuation in part of patent application Ser. No. 09 128 915 filed Aug. 4 1998 and entitled World Wide Web Registration Information Processing System now abandoned which is a continuation patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 595 837 filed Feb. 2 1996 and entitled World Wide Web Registration Information Processing System now U.S. Pat. No. 5 790 785 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 008 736 filed Dec. 11 1995 and entitled World Wide Web Registration Information Processing System the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein in their entireties.

The present invention relates in general to media content notification and in particular to a method and apparatus for identifying content of potential interest to a given network user based on user information specific to the user and using a communication network to provide notification to the user regarding the identified media content.

In recent years the types and quantity of media content available to consumers has expanded dramatically. Not too long ago the media content available to many consumers at a given time might have included live performances or athletic events at. perhaps a few venues audio programming delivered via several radio stations and television programming delivered via a few channels. Today live performances and athletic events have been increased in many areas and many choices are available via radio and television. In the latter regard it is no longer uncommon to have access to hundreds of television channels. In addition the internet increasingly competes for the attention of consumers with seemingly unlimited content options.

Without question this explosion in media content has been driven to some extent by consumer demand and consumers have benefited greatly from the increased entertainment and other information opportunities. However the shear quantity of choices has also created some frustration. In particular many consumers now find it difficult and unacceptably time consuming to keep track of the available choices and conventional guides are sometimes of little assistance. For example conventional TV guides have been expanded in many cases to cover the many choices available via cable or a satellite dish. However such guides can be difficult to use especially when they attempt to cover cable choices that vary from area to area or when they attempt to cover all programming for hundreds of channels.

As a result some consumers have been reduced to so called channel surfing in an attempt to manually survey the available options or have effectively given up on the idea of identifying the most interesting available option by adopting the habit of regularly returning to only a small number of channels. Even if one could become proficient in using conventional television guides and devoted the time necessary to select from all available options only one medium would be mastered and the challenge of keeping track of other media would remain.

The present invention is directed to a method and apparatus for identifying media content based on personal preferences and providing notification thereof for example via a communications network such as a telephone network or the Internet. The invention helps network users to keep track of the many media content options available and therefore to enjoy and more fully utilize the available media.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention content notifications are provided based on the interests of a particular network user. The corresponding method includes the steps of obtaining interest information relating to the interests of a particular consumer identifying media content based on the interest information generating notification information pertaining to the identified media content and using a communications network to transmit the notification information to the network user. In this manner the notifications can be tailored to the user s interests so as to reduce the incidence of notifications that are not of interest and also so as to reduce the incidence of missed notifications that would have been of interest to the network user.

Preferably the interest information is obtained by voluntary participation of the user. For example the user may provide information relative to the demographics psychographics product interests programming interests and lifestyle of the user upon registering to participate in the content notification program. Such information may have already been made available by the user at a separate registration site. Alternatively information regarding the user may be obtained based on a monitored history of television network usage Internet usage or other information that may be derived by monitoring the user. Additionally stored interest information may be continuously or periodically updated based on a learning process implemented by intelligent code based on television network or Internet usage patterns or the like. Such interest information can be employed to tailor the media content notifications to the user s likely interests thereby enhancing the value of Me notification program.

The interest information may include any of various types of information that are preferably provided or determined at least in part by the user. Examples include user contact information such as a name billing or residence address URL or phone number financial information such as a credit card number or bank account number service or product information useful in shopping for or purchasing airline tickets hotel rooms books music clothing etc. personal interest information for identifying programming of likely interest to the user personal records such as medical records and investment information e.g. purchases when purchased prices ticker symbols numbers of shares etc. and other demographic or personal information. The notification information may be transmitted to the user via e mail wireless or wire line telephone network Web TV or other communications network.

According to another aspect of the present invention a user may register to receive media content notifications from time to time. For example the user may elect to receive program notifications on a regular or periodic basis or upon the occurrence of certain trigger events. In this manner the user may receive media content notifications on a daily weekly or other basis. Additionally the user may register to be notified upon the occurrence of certain events such as the announcement of a concert or other performance date the release of a sound recording or other product or other types of announcements. In this manner the user can exercise control over the amount of frequency of notifications.

In the following description the invention is set forth in the context of an Internet based system for providing media content notifications via e mail. However it will be appreciated that program notifications may be provided in accordance with the present invention via other types of communications networks such as Web TV data networks other than the Internet wireless or wire line telephone networks and other public or private networks.

Referring to a content notification system in accordance with the present invention is generally identified by the reference numeral . The system includes a number of user nodes and that communicate with a registration site and a notification site via the Internet . Although the registration site and notification site are illustrated as being independent World Wide Web sites in it will be appreciated that the functionality of the sites and may be combined or may be fully or partially implemented by logic resident at the user nodes and . In addition although only three user nodes are illustrated it will be understood that substantially any number of user nodes may be serviced in accordance with the present invention.

In the illustrated embodiment the user nodes and are illustrated as being data terminals that are accessible via the Internet . Such user nodes and may be embodied as desktop or laptop computers wireless or wire line telephones incorporating data network terminals televisions incorporating data network terminals or any other internet compatible devices. The user nodes and are capable of receiving media content notifications via e mail. Although not shown such content notifications could alternatively be transmitted to a user via a telephone a pager or other communications network device or via fax or regular mail.

The registration site includes a user information database storing files containing information for various network users. Such information may be useful in identifying media content of potential interest to the various network users and may include program preferences entered by the users demographic information entered by the user or derived from other sources and other information. Such a registration site is described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 790 785 and co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 128 915 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The notification site includes a media content database and a processor running content selection logic. The media content database includes files of information regarding media content. For example in the case of a television program each file may include a program title or other identifier scheduling information and content information. The program identification information may include for example in the case of a television program the title of the program the series title and or an episode identifier. The scheduling information may include the time or times at which the program is to be aired and the duration of the program. The content information may include information regarding the content of the program provided by the content provider or otherwise. For example the content provider may provide information identifying the subject matter of the program the target demographics of the program representative advertisers of the program or other information that may be useful in. identifying network users likely to be interested in the program. Alternatively such content information may be derived based on the title of the program current or past advertisers of the program or other information. Similar types of content information may be provided for other types of media.

The processor accesses the media content database in order to identify content that may be of interest to particular users of the user nodes and . In this regard content for a particular user may be identified by matching interest information obtained from the registration site with the content information of the media content database .

Once the notification program is accessed the user may provide preference information for use by the notification program. Preferably as illustrated the preference information is voluntarily provided by the user. The preference information may be provided by filling out a questionnaire presented by the notification program. For example the questionnaire may prompt the user to enter information identifying programs authors artists or other content information of interest to the user. In addition the user may be prompted to enter information regarding hobbies periodical subscriptions and other subjects of interest to the user. The user may also be prompted to enter demographic information that may be useful in identifying media content of interest. Alternatively the user may provide preference information by referring the notification program to information stored at the registration site. It will be appreciated that such information stored at the registration site may be available for a variety of purposes other than use by the notification program.

The user may also be prompted to specify notification criteria. Such notification criteria may including notification scheduling information. For example a user may indicate that he wishes to receive content notifications on a daily weekly or other basis. Or the user may specify an interest in receiving notifications based on certain triggering events such as concert or other event announcements releases of sound recordings publications or the like or other scheduled or unscheduled events.

Once such information is provided to the notification program the user will receive notifications of media content of potential interest to the user. Such notifications may be received via e mail phone calls via regular mail or by any other suitable mechanism. In addition to the content notification information the user may be guided to related content such as web sites or other media portals related to an event or artist s related chat sessions etc. Such notifications may be provided in connection with personalized versions of portals such as MyYahoo MyLycos or the like.

Referring to a process implemented by the notification program is illustrated. The illustrated process is initiated by receiving preference information and receiving notification criteria information as discussed above. Based on this received information the program accesses the media content database so as to identify media content of potential interest to each subscribing user. The media content may be identified by iteratively comparing the content files to the preference information by utilizing the links of a relational database or through other appropriate means.

Based on the identified content the program then establishes a notification listing. This listing may be presented in the form of an e mail an audio recording a hard copy listing or other medium as appropriate. The listing is then transmitted to the user. Such transmission may be electronic by facsimile via hard copy or in any other suitable form.

Many revenue models may be established in connection with the media notification program. Users may pay a subscription fee for using the program. Content providers may also pay fees in order to be included in the program. In addition revenues may be generated by placement of advertisements at the notification site or pushing advertisements to users in connection with notifications or otherwise. Such advertisements may also be selected based on information specific to the user. For example a user who has asked to be notified of golfing programs on television may receive advertisements for golf equipment golf vacations and the like. The notification program may provide the user an option to receive or not receive such advertisements.

As described above the system may include a registration site as described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 5 790 785. is a block diagram of such a web site registration information processing system of the present invention hereinafter also denoted by the name registrar wherein this system is shown in the context of its connections to various nodes of the World Wide Web WWW . In a first embodiment a web site denoted the registrar web site provided by the present invention is connected to the World Wide Web for communicating with both World Wide Web client nodes such as WWW client node and with other web sites such as third party web site wherein the registrar web site facilitates the registration of a user at a WWW client node when this user desires to register at the third party web site . In this first embodiment the user accesses the World Wide Web through a WWW browser on a WWW client node wherein to use the registration facilities of the registrar web site for registering the user at a one or more third party web sites the user must in some manner request explicit access to the registrar web site for registering his her registration information to the registrar web site . Additionally in this first embodiment of the present invention the WWW client node need not have executable program modules designed specifically for interfacing with the registrar web site . That is substantially any conventional World Wide Web browser may be used as the WWW browser .

Thus the first embodiment of the present invention may be described as follows. In order for a user to register at one or more third party web sites the user at a WWW client node accesses the World Wide Web and in a first scenario explicitly navigates through the World Wide Web to the registrar web site wherein a registrar web site home page is communicated back to the user s WWW browser . As one skilled in the art will appreciate program modules hereinafter denoted registrar applications output to a World Wide Web network server information in for example a hypertext markup language HTML related to capabilities of the registrar web site in assisting the user in registering at third party web sites . Such outputs from registrar applications are subsequently transmitted via the network server and the network interface to the user s WWW browser in the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP as one skilled in the art will appreciate. Thus upon presentation of the registrar web site home page on the user s WWW client node the user subsequently may request to provide registration information to the registrar web site so that he she can have this information at the registrar web site automatically transferred to a third party web site when the user is requested to register at such a third party web site. Subsequently after the user s request to supply registration information is transmitted to the registrar web site via World Wide Web network interface and network server the registrar applications receive the request and output to the user s WWW browser one or more web pages having fill out forms to be presented to the user via the WWW browser . Thus upon submittal of the filled out forms by the user to the registrar web site more precisely the registrar applications the user s registration information is stored in the user registration information database .

Following the above registration procedure at the registrar web site the user may then substantially automatically register at various third party web sites that are affiliated with the registrar web site in that an agreement has been reached between each such third party web site and the registrar web site for transmitting a user s registration information to the third party web site when for example the user requests such transmittal. Thus assuming the user accesses the third party web site and for example the home page for the third party web site includes a form field allowing the user to specify that the user s registration information is stored and accessible at the registrar web site then the user can submit a response via the World Wide Web to the third party web site indicating that the user s registration information should be obtained from the registrar web site . Thus the third party web site requests and receives the user s registration information from the registrar web site and stores the user s registration information in registration information database directly accessible by the third party web site . Additionally note that when the registrar web site receives a request from the third party web site for user registration information a registrar application records the request for the user s registration information in a registrar access log data base . Thus the registrar web site maintains a log of the third party web sites requesting registration information. Further such third party web sites may periodically provide the registrar web site with information related to the frequency that users registered at the registrar web site have accessed the third party web sites . Therefore by also storing this information for example in the registrar access log the registrar web site is able to determine the frequency and type of access of third party web sites by users.

In a second method of using the first embodiment of the present invention instead of the user explicitly navigating the World Wide Web to the registrar web site for providing registration information the user may instead access a third party web site wherein the home page or registration page for the third party web site includes input fields allowing the user to request that the registrar web site automatically be accessed so that the user can enter web site registration information at the registrar web site and subsequently use the registration information provided to the registrar web site for automatically registering at the third party web site as well as other third party web sites that may be subsequently requested . That is the newly entered registration information is transferred to the third party web site by entering into a registrar specific portion of the registration form for the third party web site a registrar user identification and optionally a password for requesting that the third party web site access the registrar web site to obtain the user s registration information. Thus the user s registration information automatically is communicated to the third party web site without the user explicitly having to navigate the World Wide Web and access the registrar web site to register his her web site registration information.

Note that alternative embodiments are within the scope of the present invention wherein program modules for the present invention are distributed so that there is an executable module provided on the user s WWW client node for communication with the registrar web site as well as with third party web sites that accept registration information from the present invention. In one embodiment of such a distributed architecture for the present invention a registrar registration module is integrated into the user s WWW browser for gathering the user s web site registration information and communicating with the registrar web site as well as cooperating third party web sites at which the user desires to register. Such a registration module may provide the user with easier access to his her registration information since the information resides locally on the user s WWW client node in a persistent nonvolatile storage. Further the registrar registration module may be activated for entering or updating user registration information without the user necessarily being connected to the World Wide Web . Moreover by integrating the registrar registration module into the user s WWW browser the user is presented with an integrated set of functions for registering and accessing third party web sites .

Thus in such distributed architectures after the user has entered registration information into the registrar registration module this module will substantially automatically contact the registrar web site via the World Wide Web and thereby communicate the user s registration information to the registrar web site so that for example the user s registration information may be reliably stored in case there are failures at the user s WWW client node . Thus to access a third party web site that cooperates with the registrar for registering the user once the user has made contact through the World Wide Web with such a third party web site the user transfers his her registration information from the registration module to the third party web site. Further note that in the registration process of the present embodiment whenever the user registers at a third party web site the registrar web site is provided by for example the module with information related to the registration so that the user also has a off site backup copy of all registrations at third party web sites residing at the registrar web site .

Note that other distributed architectures for the present invention are also contemplated wherein the registrar registration module on the user s WWW client node is not integrated with the user s WWW browser . In such an embodiment the user may be faced with a different user interaction technique for the module than that of the WWW browser . However the user is provided with added flexibility in choosing a WWW browser and or using his her existing browser which may not contain as part of the browser the registrar registration module .

In a flowchart is presented describing the steps performed when the user explicitly navigates the World Wide Web to contact the registrar web site for supplying registration information. Accordingly assuming the user contacts the registrar web site in step the web site receives the user s request for information. Subsequently in step the registrar web site responds with a home page describing the registrar services a selection or browsing capability for reviewing third party web sites accepting registrar registrations and a fill out form so that the user may request to proceed if desired with entering registration information at the registrar web site . In step the user determines whether to proceed with the registration process or not. Assuming the user elects to proceed the request to proceed is transferred back to the registrar web site wherein a registrar application examines the response and outputs a fill out form that is transmitted back to the user s WWW browser so that the user may enter his her registration information and submit it to the registrar web site . Thus in step the steps of the flowchart of are performed by the user when entering information into the registration fill out form provided by the registrar web site . Subsequently in step the user initiates the transfer of his her registration information to the registrar web site . Note that the submittal of the registration information may be performed by a conventional electronic transfer through the World Wide Web using any one of various interne protocols or alternatively other techniques for transferring the information to the registrar web site are also contemplated. For example the user may fax a printed copy of a completed registration form to the registrar web site at which point the information may be manually input into the user registration information database . In step upon receiving the user s registration information one or more registrar applications review the user s registration information for determining whether there is enough information supplied to at least uniquely identify the user. If not then in steps and a registrar application s requests additional information from the user and flags the user s information currently stored in the user registration information database indicating that a user response is required to further process the user s information. As an aside note that other feedback loops to the user are contemplated that are related to the loop of steps through . For example it may be the case that the user has supplied sufficient information to be uniquely identifiable at the registrar web site but the user has supplied insufficient information for the registrar web site to supply adequate information to most third party web sites that utilize registrar registration capabilities. Thus a similar feedback loop to loop through may be provided for requesting that the user supply additional information so that a substantial number of third party web sites cooperative with registrar will allow the user to register at them using only the information supplied by the registrar web site .

Referring again to step if a determination is made that sufficient registration information has been received at the registrar web site the user s registration information is stored in the user registration information database step and subsequently a registrar application outputs a request to the user to select a user ID and password that can be at least used to access the user s registration information at the registrar web site step . Assuming as in step that the user submits a user ID and a password to the registrar web site then in step a determination is made by the present invention more particularly a registrar application as to whether the user supplied ID and password is acceptable for uniquely identifying the user. If not then steps through are repeated until an appropriate user ID and password are entered by the user. Thus assuming that an acceptable user ID and password are provided in step the registration information supplied by the user is marked as unverified since there has been no independent confirmation that the user supplied information is accurate. Subsequently in step a registrar application commences to enrich the user s supplied registration information with publicly available information related to the user and to the degree possible i.e. conforming with internet etiquette privacy concerns of users and public policy to verify the user s registration information. Note that by comparing the user supplied information with information about the user from other sources a determination can be made as to the accuracy of the user supplied information. Thus whenever an item of the user supplied information is independently verified then that item is unmarked. Alternatively if discrepancies arise between the user supplied information and other publicly available information about the user then the user may be alerted to these discrepancies and requested to confirm his her initial responses.

Referring now briefly to this flowchart presents the steps a user performs when entering web site registration information into the fill out forms to be submitted to registrar. Accordingly in step the user determines whether to supply basic information i.e. requested by a substantial number of third party web sites as described in step or to supply expanded information i.e. more extensive information about the user so that for example registrar has sufficient user information to register the user at substantially all cooperating third party web sites . Note that at least in one embodiment the basic information supplied in step i.e. the user s name e mail address gender and date of birth is also requested in the forms for expanded information in step . Thus upon filling in at least one field from the fill out forms step presented in either step or the present invention field checks the user s input for syntactically appropriate responses. Subsequently in step the user inputs a request to terminate entering information in the presently presented fill out form s and in step the user determines whether to enter additional information in either the basic registration information fill out forms or the expanded information fill out forms. If the user indicates that he she desires to enter further registration information then step is again performed. Alternatively the flowchart returns to the invoking program flowchart with the user supplied registration information.

Subsequently once the third party web site has received a response from the user a determination is made as to whether the user is registered at the web site step . If the user is registered then no further processing related to the present invention is required. Alternatively if the user is not registered at the third party web site then a response is transferred from the third party web site through the World Wide Web to the user s WWW browser providing the user with the fill out forms in which the user is requested to enter information for registering at the third party web site. Note that if the third party web site is configured to accept user registration information from the present invention then at least one fill out form related to registering at the third party web site will request information related to registering the user by using the present invention. In particular the third party web site may present the user with a fill out form requesting the user to enter a user ID and optionally a password for the present invention i.e. registrar if the user is registered at the registrar web site . Additionally the presented fill out forms may request the user to indicate whether he she prefers to register at the third party web site by using registrar. Thus assuming the user desires to register at the third party web site a determination is made as to whether the user wishes to register using the present invention or register at the third party web site without using the present invention step . If the user chooses to not use the present invention for registering at the third party web site then the user explicitly supplies registration information for the present third party web site step . Alternatively if the user chooses to use registrar to register then once the present third party web site receives a response from the user indicating the choice to use registrar to register in step the present third party web site sends a request to the registrar web site for registering the user at the registrar web site . Subsequently in step the steps of are performed for registering the user at the registrar web site . Subsequently after registering at the registrar web site in step the user is automatically placed in contact with the present third party web site so that he she submits a registration fill out form to this third party web site a indicating that the user s registration information may be obtained from the registrar web site and b providing a user ID and optionally a password for the registrar web site to be used as identification at the present third party web site. Following this in step the third party web site invokes the program corresponding to to obtain the user s registration data from the registrar web site . Lastly upon verification by the third party web site of the user s registration data the user is granted access to the desired third party web site and or application step .

In a flowchart is presented of the registration data transmission process from the registrar web site to a third party web site . Accordingly in step the third party web site provides the registrar web site with identification of the third party web site the user s registrar user ID and any registrar password. Further in some instances as will be described below the third party web site also supplies the registrar web site with a return path to the user through the World Wide Web . Following this in step a determination is made by the registrar web site as to whether the third party web site supplied information can be authenticated. If not all third party web site information is authenticated then step is encountered wherein a determination is made as to whether to request that the third party web site to resend the information of step . Note that such a determination may be made in one embodiment depending upon whether the third party web site identification is authenticated. That is if the third party web site identification is authenticated then a retry may be allowed. Otherwise no retry may be allowed. Alternatively referring again to step if all information transmitted from the third party web site is authenticated at the registrar web site then step is encountered. In this step the program represented by is performed for supplying the third party web site with registration information related to the user from the user registration information database .

Referring now to the flowchart presented here provides the steps for supplying a present third party web site with registration information from the registrar web site assuming that the present third party web site has requested such information and that the request has been authenticated at the registrar web site . Accordingly in step the registrar web site or more precisely a registrar application performs the steps of for retrieving the user registration information requested by the present third party web site from the user registration information database . Note that a third party web site may request various categories of information from the registrar web site related to the user. In particular a third party web site may request a basic information as discussed in step of b expanded information as discussed in step of c custom information wherein selected fields from the basic and expanded information are provided and d proprietary information wherein one or more additional user related information items may be provided wherein these items have been obtained by the registrar web site by for example enriching and verifying the registration information obtained from the user as in step of .

Following step step is encountered wherein a registration application determines whether the present third party web site requesting user information for a user attempting to register at this third party web site requires that a user ID and optionally password be generated specifically for this third party web site. That is the third party web site may require a user ID and or password that conforms with a format peculiar to the third party web site . Note that to perform the step in at least one embodiment of the present invention information related to the requirements of the present third party web site are stored at the registrar web site . In particular the registrar web site may store a user information request template for each third coordinating party web site having access to user information at the registrar web site such that a registrar application upon identifying a particular third party web site may access a related user information request template for determining what information may be required by this third party web site.

If a user ID and optionally password need not be generated specifically for the requesting third party web site then in step the user information requested by the third party web site is encrypted and in step the encrypted information is sent to the third party web site. Following this in step a registrar application logs an entry or a record in the registrar access log database indicating that registration information for the user has been transmitted to the present third party web site . Subsequently in step a registrar application or more precisely an instantiation thereof waits for an acceptance response from the present third party web site to which the encrypted user information was sent. Note that the response from the present third party web site may include a third party web site specific user ID and optionally password if the user was not previously registered at this third party web site. That is the third party web site may automatically generate at least a user ID if the user was not previously registered at the web site. Alternatively it may be the case that the present third party web site uses the user s registrar registration user ID and password for registering the user at the third party web site . Note that in at least one embodiment for registration processing at a third party web site the use of the registrar user ID does not create ambiguity in the identity of users registering at the third party web site. For example a user seeking access to a cooperating third party web site may be required to indicate that his her user ID and or password is a registrar generated user ID and or password so that the third party web site can process the entered user identification differently from that of users who have registered without using the present invention. Subsequently when an acceptance response from the requesting third party web site is provided to the registrar web site or more precisely a registrar application this response is logged in the registrar access log database in step . Following this latter step in step a determination is made as to whether the response from the present third party web site indicates that the user is now registered at this third party web site. If no such indication is provided then in step a message is sent to the user at the user s WWW client node that registrar cannot register the user at the present third party web site to which the user has requested registration and access. Further the registrar application performing step may also supply the user with a reason as to why the user cannot register through registrar at the present party web site if such a reason was indicated by this third party web site when the response of step was received.

Alternatively if in step it is determined that the user is registered at the present third party web site then in step the program corresponding to the flowchart of is performed for storing at least the user s ID and optionally password for the present third party web site at the registrar web site more precisely in the user registration information database as will be discussed hereinbelow.

Referring again to step of if a registrar application is required to generate a user ID and optionally password for the third party web site then step is next performed wherein a registrar application generates a user ID and optionally password to be transmitted to the third party web site . Subsequently the sequence of steps through are performed. Note that this sequence of steps is substantially the same sequence of steps as steps through . However the response from the present third party web site logged in step may include an indication as to whether the user generated by the registrar application is acceptable to the present third party web site .

Accordingly continuing the discussion of from step if the response from the present third party web site indicates that the user is registered at the desired third party web site then step is performed wherein the program corresponding to the flowchart of is again used to store the user s ID and optionally password for the present third party web site in the user registration information database as in step . Alternatively if in step it is determined that the user is not registered at the present third party web site then in step a determination is made as to whether the generated user registration information i.e. user ID and optionally password step has been rejected by the present third party web site. If so then in step a determination is made as to whether this rejection has occurred less than a predetermined number of times i.e. the sequence of steps through have been iteratively performed less than a predetermined number of times in attempting to register the user at the present third party web site . If the results of the test in step is affirmative then step is again encountered for generating alternative user registration information for the present third party web site. Note that it is an aspect of the present invention that at least in one embodiment such generations produce user IDs that are meaningful to the user and or are related to other web site registration user IDs for the user. Thus in one embodiment of the present invention the step uses the user s registrar user ID as a seed from which to generate a user ID acceptable to the present third party web site . Moreover note that the generation process of step may use various heuristics and third party web site constraints to generate acceptable user IDs.

Alternately if the negative branch from step is followed then the third party web site may have rejected registering the user for any of a number of reasons that may not be able to be alleviated in a timely fashion so that the user can be registered at this third party web site in a short amount of time. Accordingly step is encountered wherein a message is transmitted to the user s WWW client node indicating that registrar cannot currently register the user at the requested third party web site . Further note that if in step it is determined that too many attempts have been made to generate acceptable registration information for the third party web site then step is also encountered.

The flowchart of is representative of the processing variations within the scope of the present invention for supplying a third party web site with registration information. For instance those skilled in the art will appreciate that steps and may have a timer associated with them whereby if there is no response from the third party web site within a predetermined time period then a default response is provided by a registrar application so that one of the steps or is performed as part of the processing when such a timer expires and subsequent steps in the flowchart are performed. Additionally other steps may be inserted for example on the negative branch from step wherein these additional steps attempt to address other anomalies indicated in the acceptance response received in step . For example if the third party web site requests additional user information than what was provided in step then if this additional information is in the user registration information database and the user has indicated that it is permissible to disseminate this information then the additional information may be transmitted to the present third party web site . Also in such a case the transmittal of this additional information is recorded in the registrar access log database .

Referring now to wherein the flowchart for a program is provided for supplying from the user registration information database a requesting third party web site with registration information related to a particular user. Accordingly in step of if the registrar web site has not been previously supplied with an indication as to what type of information is required by the requesting third party web site then a registrar application constructs such a request to be transmitted to the requesting third party web site and subsequently the application may wait for a response from this third party web site. Following step in step it is assumed that the registrar web site has been provided with an indication or specification as to what information the requesting third party web site desires. Thus the registrar application performing step may now determine what registration information is to be transmitted to this third party web site. Note that at least in one embodiment of step the user registration information requested may require validation according to the following criteria 

 1.1 The type and amount of registration information for a user that the user has indicated is available to be transmitted to a requesting third party web site.

 1.2 The type and amount of information the requesting third party web site has contracted with the registrar web site for transmitting regarding a particular user or category of users.

Thus as discussed with respect to step of either basic expanded custom or proprietary registration information related to a user is transmitted to the requesting third party web site in step .

Regarding the steps of in step a determination is made as to whether the user has been provided with a user ID optionally password for the third party web site to which the user is attempting to register that is different from the user s registrar user ID and or password. If not then there is nothing additional to store at the registrar web site and the flowchart ends. Alternatively if the decision of step results in a positive answer then step is performed wherein the user s specific user ID and optionally password for this third party web site is stored with other user registration information in the user registration information database . Note the following advantages accrue by storing user registration information at the registrar web site a each user has the convenience of off site storage backup for each such third party web site to which the user is registered and b depending on the registration process at the third party web site it may be expedient for such a web site at least temporarily to automatically contact the registrar web site for retrieving for example the user s third party web site specific user ID upon subsequent user accesses to the third party web site.

Following step in step a determination is made as to whether the third party web site has indicated that it will initiate requests as in b immediately above. If so then no further processing needs to be accomplished here in that the user may enter his her user registrar web site user ID and optionally password when accessing the third party web site. Alternatively if step yields a negative answer then step is performed wherein the registrar web site sends a message to the user at the user s WWW client node providing the user with the ID and optionally password for the third party web site.

In an alternative embodiment of the present invention a registrar registration module may be provided at the user s WWW client node . This module whether incorporated into the WWW browser or external to the browser and communicating with the browser through for example a browser port may store locally at the client node registration information for accessing third party web sites to which the user has registered using the present invention. In flowcharts are provided for programs illustrating the processing of this alternative embodiment of the present invention.

In a flowchart is presented of the program for registering at a third party web site when the module is installed on the user s client node .

Describing now the steps of in step the user sends a request to access a third party web site via the user s WWW browser . Subsequently upon receiving the request the accessed third party web site responds with a home page having a registration fill out form step . Assuming that the registration fill out form allows the user to indicate that user registration information may be obtained locally at the client node in step the user indicates on the fill out form that he she desires to register at the third party web site and that his her registration information can be retrieved using the registrar registration module residing on the user s client node . Further note that the user may be required to activate or alert the module so that this module can supply the appropriate user registration information to be communicated to the third party web site . Also note that the home page from the third party web site may indicate the type of information required to register the user and this information may be used either manually or automatically for determining the user registration information stored on the user s client node that will be transmitted to the third party web site. Subsequently in step the user specifies that the registration fill out form is to be submitted to the third party web site. Accordingly the WWW browser communicates with the registrar registration module to supply the registration information to the third party web site. That is the processing performed here includes the steps of which are described herein below. Subsequently in step a message is sent from the registration module to the registrar web site indicating that the user has registered at the third party web site and additionally supplying the registrar web site with any user ID and password specific to the third party web site. Note that by sending this information as well as for example a copy of substantially all of the user s registration information stored locally to the registrar web site the user is provided with an automatic off site backup of his her registration information. Additionally the user may be provided with other advantages by providing his her user registration information to the registrar web site . In particular the registrar web site may enrich the user s registration information with publicly available information on the user and alert the user to discrepancies between the user information and various publicly available records on the user.

Referring now to the flowchart of this flowchart describes the steps performed when supplying a third party web site with registration information retained by the registrar registration module on the user s node. In step the steps of the flowchart of are performed for retrieving the registration information requested by the third party web site. Subsequently in step the registrar registration module packages the accessed registration information for the third party web site together with the user s registrar ID and optionally password for transmittal to the third party web site. Subsequently in step the registration information packaged together in step is encrypted so that in step this encrypted information may be sent securely to the third party web site via the World Wide Web . Following this in step the module logs an entry into a local log on the client node indicating what registration information was sent to the third party web site. Subsequently in step a process may be instantiated to wait for an acceptance response from the third party web site so that when such a response is obtained it may be logged locally at the client node in step .

In one embodiment of the present invention the user may configure the registrar registration module to log all activities with third party web sites and provide the records of this log to the registrar web site . This allows the registrar web site or personnel that maintain the registrar web site to analyze user activities on the World Wide Web . Such analysis may be useful to both registrar users and third party web site personnel in that given a user s World Wide Web activity the registrar web site may suggest additional third party web sites of which the user may not be aware. Further by analyzing the user access logs of registrar users the registrar web site may provide statistics to the third party web sites as to the number and types of users accessing their respective web sites.

Note that in at least one embodiment of the present invention the user is allowed to change his her registrar user ID and or password. However it may be the case that when a user changes his her registrar user ID that the new requested user ID has already been assigned to another registrar user. Thus the registrar web site may respond with a request for further information such as a request for a different user ID from the user wherein when the user submits the additional information the registrar web site again checks to determine if the user is uniquely identifiable. Note that the loop of steps and are provided to represent the iterative process described here of changing the user s user ID. Further note that in some embodiments of the present invention the registrar web site may respond with alternative variations for a new user ID so that the user is not left to guess at a registrar user ID that is acceptable for uniquely identifying the user.

Returning now to step if the user s registration information is stored locally at the user s client node then step is performed instead of the steps . However for simplicity a discussion of the processing performed in step is not described in detail here. Instead a detailed discussion of this step is provided by and the discussion of hereinbelow for changing the registration information at the user s client node and for transmitting the changes to the registrar web site .

Regardless of the branch of processing taken from step eventually step and the subsequent steps of are encountered wherein the present invention updates or alerts third party web sites having previously received user registration information that this information may be outdated. Thus the steps are performed so that the registration information provided to such third party web sites via the present invention is consistent with the newly supplied user registration information. However in at least one embodiment of the present invention prior to providing any newly entered user registration information to the third party web sites such information may be compared or correlated with publicly available information regarding the user that is for example accessible via certain third party web sites . Further the user may request his her newly entered registration information by supplied to only selected web sites to which the user is registered or alternatively the user may request that the newly entered registration information be supplied to all web sites to which the user is registered.

If the user desires to enter further information then step is again encountered and a determination is made once again as to whether the user requests to obtain a registrar user ID. However it is important to note that the steps provided in this flowchart are only an indication of the processing provided by the registrar registration module and the user s browser. In particular since the user interfaces typically used by World Wide Web browsers allow a user to select the fill out form fields to modify the positive branch from step is taken only when the user enters information in a fill out form field indicating that a registrar user ID is requested. Similarly the negative branch from step is taken whenever user information is entered into other fill out form fields unrelated to obtaining a registrar user ID.

Accordingly if the user desires to enter other information than that required to obtain a registrar user ID then from step step is encountered wherein the registrar registration module explicitly requests the user s registrar registration user ID and optionally password . Subsequently in step assuming the user enters a registrar user ID a determination is made as to whether the registrar user ID is valid. Note that this determination is initially made locally at the user s client node without contacting the registrar web site . However in one embodiment of the present invention it is an option that if the registrar user ID entered is not found in the client node then the registrar registration module may inquire of the user as to whether he she desires the registrar web site to be interrogated for the registrar user ID and password and if found download the user s registration information to the user s client node . If no valid registrar user ID is determined in step then the program ends in step . Alternatively if a valid registrar user ID is obtained then in step a determination is made as to whether the user requests to exit the present program and thereby stop supplying registration information. Note that this step is similar to step in that if the user continues to enter registration information in fill out form fields then the negative branch from this step is followed and alternatively if the user for example activates an exit button on the user interface then the positive branch from step will be followed. Accordingly if the negative branch is followed then in step the program of is performed for obtaining new user registration information and subsequently step is encountered or more precisely the user interface is provided that allows the user to request a registrar user ID .

Alternatively if the positive branch is taken from step then step is encountered wherein the registrar registration module transmits or schedules the transmission of any newly entered user registration information that the user desires to be transmitted to the registrar web site for backup storage. Thus in one embodiment of the present invention the step provides the user with the option to discard the registration information provided in step above instead of transmitting this information to the registrar web site .

In a flowchart is presented of the program for obtaining a registrar user ID and optionally password for the embodiment of the present invention wherein the registrar registration module retains the user s registrar user ID and optionally password for automatically providing to third party web sites at which the user requests registration using the present invention. Accordingly in step the registrar registration module requests the user to select a registrar user ID and optionally a password that can be used to access the user s registration information at both the user s client node and at the registrar web site . Assuming that the user enters a user ID and optionally password in step in step the registrar registration module transmits the user selected ID and optionally password to the registrar web site . Subsequently in step a determination is made by the registrar application as to whether the user s selected user ID and optionally password are acceptable to the registrar web site. That is a registrar application accesses the user registration information database to determine if the selected user ID is sufficiently unique. Note that other steps may be performed between steps and . For example the syntax for user IDs and optionally passwords may be checked at the module prior to transmitting the user s selected registration information to the registrar web site .

Continuing with step a determination is made at the registrar web site as to whether the user s selected user ID and optionally password are acceptable to registrar. If so then in step a registration application stores the user s ID and optionally password in the user registration information database . Note that since it is unlikely that any further information related to the present user is stored at the registrar web site the process of storing the user s user ID and optionally password includes creating a new record in the database and marking all remaining fields related to registration information for this user to indicate that these fields are as yet not valid. Following this in step a registrar application transmits a message to the user s WWW browser indicating that the user s selected user ID and optionally password is acceptable to registrar.

Alternatively if the negative path is taken from step then step is encountered wherein a registrar application attempts to generate an acceptable user ID and optionally password as a substitute for the user s proposed user ID and optionally password . Note that in generating alternative registration information the registrar application may use the user supplied information as the basis or seed for generating an acceptable user ID and optionally password to be transmitted back to the user. Accordingly in step once the user is presented with the newly generated registration information on the user s client node the registrar registration module provides the user with the option to accept or reject the generated information. If the user accepts the generated registration information then the flowchart ends. Alternatively if the user rejects this information then in step a further determination is made by the module as to whether the user enters a new user ID and optionally password as an alternative to the generated registration information. If such new user registration information is provided then step and steps thereafter are again performed in attempting to provide a registrar user ID and optionally password to the user. Alternatively if the user indicates in step that no further proposed candidates for a user ID and optionally password will be forthcoming then the flowchart ends without an acceptable registrar user ID being obtained.

The foregoing discussion of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. Further the description is not intended to limit the invention to the form disclosed herein. Subsequently variation and modification commensurate with the above teachings within the skill and knowledge of the relevant art are within the scope of the present invention. The embodiments described hereinabove are further intended to explain the best mode presently known of practicing the invention and to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention as such or in other embodiments and with the various modifications required by their particular application or uses of the invention. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted by the prior art.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described in detail it is apparent that further modifications and adaptations of the invention will occur to those skilled in the art. However it is to be expressly understood that such modifications and adaptations are within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

