---

title: Systems and methods for exposing different service facades of an underlying network
abstract: A plurality of service facades are used to expose the capabilities of an underlying telecommunications network in different ways. Each service façade provides a different interface to access a set of functions of the telecom network. The service facades can be accessed by client applications residing externally with respect to the telecom network. The client applications can invoke a particular service façade to send a message to the network and the invocations can be translated to the native protocols used by the resources in the telecom network to carry out the request. The service facades can be deployed on a service access gateway to the telecom network and can include a simple object access protocol (SOAP) façade, a representational state transfer (REST) façade, a service oriented architecture (SOA) façade and a native façade.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08605667&OS=08605667&RS=08605667
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08605667
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110113
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 294 766 entitled GATEKEEPER SERVICE EXPOSURE PLATFORM FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS by Sharath Rajasekar et al. filed on Jan. 13 2010 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety including all Appendices filed therewith.

U.S. patent application No. 13 006 172 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR INTEGRATING A SERVICE ACCESS GATEWAY WITH BILLING AND REVENUE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS by Rajasekar et al. filed Jan. 13 2011 and

U.S. patent application No. 13 006 184 entitled GATEWAY FOR ENABLING CLOUD BASED SERVICE EXPOSURE by Rajasekar et al. filed Jan. 13 2011.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The current invention relates to mobile communications and gateways for managing access to a wireless network.

With the advent of mobile communications more and more devices are becoming integrated with the World Wide Web. Everything from a simple cellular phone to more complex mobile devices such as laptops electronic books tablets personal digital assistants PDAs and even automobiles are striving to maintain a constant connection to the internet. As a result of all this interconnectivity websites and other online application providers have been showing an ever increasing interest in providing services to these mobile clients.

For mobile network operators MNOs that own the network and access to the mobile subscriber onboarding all of these third party service providers has not proved to be easy. A multitude of issues and problems may arise when managing large numbers of applications attempting to access the network. These issues include security control traffic throttling providing more options and control to the subscriber as well as translation of communications between various protocols being employed.

In light of these concerns many network operators have deployed service access gateways or other intermediary entities in order to manage and control the communications exchanged between the various entities and their mobile subscribers. However these gateway solutions have not addressed all the problems and various shortcomings still exist in the marketplace.

By way of example different service providers that wish to provide services to the telecom network often need to access it in different formats i.e. each provider using different protocols APIs communications data synchronous asynchronous communications etc. . The approach to provide such access has generally been either ad hoc based each type of service provider connecting to the network by learning how to integrate itself and to access the capabilities exposed or by providing a generalized interface web services for accessing the network capabilities. However this approach has a number of limitations. For example the process of learning how to access the underlying network and how to integrate its functionality and services can be a cumbersome and tedious task involving significant time and costs on the part of the service provider. On the other hand merely providing a simplified generic interface for all service providers may not be as all inclusive of certain functionalities and capabilities that can be desirable to a select few providers. What is needed is a simplified way for client applications to access the underlying network and take advantage of all of its needed capabilities in a multitude of formats which can be selectable by the client and one that allows developers to use more familiar functionality and interfaces.

A plurality of service facades are used to expose the capabilities of an underlying telecommunications network in different ways. Each service fa ade provides a different interface to access a set of functions of the telecom network. The service facades can be accessed by client applications residing externally with respect to the telecom network. The client applications can invoke a particular service fa ade to send a message to the network and the invocations can be translated to the native protocols used by the resources in the telecom network to carry out the request. The service facades can be deployed on a service access gateway to the telecom network and can include a simple object access protocol SOAP fa ade a representational state transfer REST fa ade a service oriented architecture SOA fa ade and a native fa ade.

The invention is illustrated by way of example and not by way of limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements. References to embodiments in this disclosure are not necessarily to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one. While specific implementations are discussed it is understood that this is done for illustrative purposes only. A person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other components and configurations may be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough description of the invention. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the invention.

The embodiments of the present invention can be utilized within a service exposure gatekeeper platform that is positioned to manage access to a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular telephone network such as GSM or CDMA network . In accordance with an embodiment the gatekeeper is a service access gateway that can intercept and manage communications between the mobile devices in the wireless network and the various third party service providers such as client web applications residing on the Internet. For example the gatekeeper can intercept both network initiated communications and application initiated communications and apply service level agreements SLAs security traffic throttling protocol translation and other functionality to those communications. In accordance with one embodiment the gatekeeper is implemented as a web application that is deployed by a network operator.

In accordance with various embodiments the gatekeeper includes a set of features to add and improve functionality to manage the mobile communications flowing to and from the mobile network. In accordance with an embodiment the gatekeeper includes a set of service facades that expose differing views of the underlying wireless network depending on the client accessing the fa ade. This enables the gatekeeper to expose differing views facades of the underlying telecom network infrastructure to different audiences. For example one type of service provider client may see one fa ade of the network based on its native way of communicating or based on a particular standard while another type of service provider would see a different fa ade of the same network capabilities. In accordance with an embodiment the gatekeeper exposes a REpresentational State Transfer RESTful style fa ade a SOAP style facade based on Parlay X 2.1 and 3.0 a Service Oriented Architecture SOA based fa ade that leverages an enterprise service bus and a Native facade based on native telecom network protocols. Because the gatekeeper platform is positioned at the entrance to the operator s telecom network it can leverage these facades in order to expose multiple different views of the telecom network depending on who is accessing it and depending on the protocol that the assessor is using to communicate.

In accordance with an embodiment REST style web services are usually lighter weight and particularly useful for rich internet applications e.g. AJAX and limited profile devices. As such these lightweight devices can utilize the REST view of the network by accessing the RESTful fa ade provided by the gatekeeper platform. On the other hand generic web applications that communicate via Web Services can utilize the SOAP view of the network by accessing the Web Services SOAP fa ade. Legacy clients that communicate by the native network protocols can continue to access the network in the same manner by accessing the Native fa ade of the gatekeeper. Similarly applications that utilize an enterprise service bus can use the SOA facade of the gatekeeper.

One advantage of using such facades is that different service providers do not need to learn how to integrate themselves with one type of interface exposed by the network. Instead each service provider application can use its own specific view fa ade of the network capabilities. This is also a value that is added by the platform to any network operator seeking to make access to its network easier for various third party services.

In accordance with an embodiment the different service facades can be switched at runtime without any coding on the part of the users using the fa ade. Upon swapping one fa ade for another the gatekeeper maintains access to the network for the application and continues to allow the application to access its capabilities over the new fa ade.

As illustrated the gatekeeper platform exposes a number of different facades of the underlying network capabilities. In accordance with an embodiment these facades include a RESTful facade a SOA fa ade a Native fa ade and a Web Services SOAP fa ade . Each of these service facades can be accessed by a respective client that knows how to interact and access the functions exposed by the particular fa ade. By interacting with the service fa ades the clients can access the various network elements such as short messaging service center SMS C multimedia messaging center MMS C and others in order to provide a particular service to a subscriber of a mobile device in the network.

As shown in this figure the gatekeeper can be deployed in a dual type of tier deployment that includes an access layer cluster and a network layer cluster . Each cluster can include one or more gatekeeper node instances. The network layer cluster can contain the various plugins to interact with the underlying network elements in their respective protocols while the access layer cluster can interact with the various internal and external clients that wish to access the network in order to provide a particular service to the mobile subscriber devices. In accordance with various embodiments the service facades are implemented in the access tier cluster for both internal and external exposure.

In accordance with an embodiment the tier routing feature can enable a single network tier to support multiple service facades multiple access tiers . For example when different clients access the gatekeeper by using different facades the gatekeeper may often need to send acknowledgements responses or notifications back to the client. In many instances it is important to determine which service facade was used to originally receive the request to the gatekeeper. This can be important since the gatekeeper platform may need to know which service fa ade the client is connected to. In accordance with an embodiment the tier routing feature can provide the logic to determine which service fa ade was originally invoked to provide the request to the gatekeeper. This can be performed by allowing multiple access tiers of the gatekeeper to access the same network tier.

In accordance with various embodiments several facades are described in more detail with reference to the figures below. It is noted however that the specific facades described below are not intended to limit all of the embodiments of the invention but are rather shown only for purposes of illustration on some of the possible options for facades that can be created to expose the capabilities of the telecom network. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that many other such facades are possible and can be created within the scope of the embodiments of the invention described herein.

In general REST style web services are lighter weight than SOAP based web services and are particularly useful for Rich Internet Applications e.g. Ajax and limited profile devices. In accordance with an embodiment the REST facade is a set of REST style web service implementations for Parlay X and extended web services EWS communication services. In accordance with an embodiment it is comprised of an additional library of components to be deployed on the access tier of the gatekeeper for each communication service to handle REST based requests.

In accordance with an embodiment the REST fa ade is responsible for HTTP input data binding dispatching requests to Enterprise JavaBeans EJBs in the network tier of the gatekeeper marshalling response exception objects back to the client as a Javascript Object Notation JSON string as well as mapping ParlayX PX EWS exceptions to HTTP response status code. The network tier can be agnostic to the REST fa ade. In accordance with an embodiment the REST fa ade is available for the following services 

In accordance with an embodiment the REST fa ade includes an REST style API that can be employed by client applications to access the telecom network. REST is defined as a set of web service APIs for the management of resources that may be created read updated and deleted CRUD over hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . As such the REST fa ade implements a resource oriented approach where each resource is represented by a distinctive URI from its SOAP counter part. In accordance with an embodiment the operations on the resource can be mapped to HTTP methods as shown below 

It should be noted that although shows the implementation of certain objects and components these objects and components are shown for illustration purposes only and are not necessary required for all implementations of the REST facade. In accordance with various other embodiments the REST facade can be implemented with different objects and components which do not involve the ones illustrated in .

It is noted that similarly to also contains certain objects and components which are shown only for purposes of illustration and are not necessarily required for all embodiments involving the REST facade.

In accordance with various embodiments the service oriented architecture SOA fa ade provides the ability to integrate the gatekeeper smoothly into a SOA environment by using and leveraging the capabilities of an enterprise service bus that is frequently used by enterprises. A uniform API can be exposed to SOA and non SOA clients using the service bus. As such clients of the gatekeeper that are familiar with the interfaces of the service bus can utilize the SOA fa ade to access the resources of the telecom network.

In accordance with an embodiment the SOA fa ade is a server running with the enterprise service bus that interfaces with the network tier of the gatekeeper. The SOA fa ade can be stateless similar to the access tier of the gatekeeper as described above . The SOA fa ade can replace the access tier instances or be used in conjunction with the access tier instances. Therefore the three deployment options are to deploy the network tier of the gatekeeper with either 1 the SOA fa ade cluster only 2 the SOA fa ade cluster together with the access tier cluster and 3 the access tier only.

In accordance with an embodiment the integration of the gatekeeper with the enterprise service bus can minimize any changes in the enterprise service bus code by reusing as many components as possible and by using the same enterprise service bus routing features. In accordance with one embodiment the service bus is used as a SOAP to SOAP proxy which will forward all the requests from the application to the network tier and from the network tier to the application.

In accordance with an embodiment the routing portion of the flow is used to modify any endpoint used to notify the application in order to go through the enterprise service bus again. By default the notification endpoint usually contains the endpoint of the application itself. If the endpoint were left unmodified the notification would be forwarded directly to the application bypassing the service bus. To avoid this from occurring the service bus will modify the endpoint to redirect it to itself and will store the application endpoint referred to as the real endpoint in the HTTP query string. In accordance with an embodiment the modification pattern can be similar to the following 

As illustrated in and one implementation for the SOA fa ade can simply take a request flowing from the network or from the application and reroute it to flow through the enterprise service bus if one is already deployed. However this should not be construed to be limiting to the embodiments of the invention. In accordance with alternative embodiments the SOA fa ade can be implemented differently such as creating a separate API for the SOA fa ade without rerouting the request through the service bus as well as utilizing other possible implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments the native fa ade can provide a way for clients that are already using the native protocols and APIs of the underlying telecom network to continue using those protocols and APIs to access the network capabilities. In addition these native clients can take advantage of the various additional features provided by the gatekeeper such as service level agreement SLA enforcement policy evaluation high availability scalability security and the like. In accordance with an embodiment when implementing the native fa ade there is no need to translate between the format of the application and the network resources since the application is already communicating according to the protocols native to the network. For example two native protocols that can be supported by the native fa ade include short message peer to peer protocol SMPP version 3.4 and Native Multimedia Messaging MMS Architecture interface MM7 version 5.3.0. Of course the native fa ade embodiments are not limited to these two particular protocols and can support a variety of other native protocols.

In accordance with an embodiment native SMPP can be divided into a connector and a plugin. The SMPP connector can replace the access tier functionality and serve as the access point for the client applications. It can accept TCP connections and forward protocol data units PDUs between the application and the plugin. The plugin on the other hand can connect to the resource in the telecom network e.g. SMS C . The plugin can have multiple instances each instance using a single SMS C account. The plugin can forward PDUs between the connector and the SMS C. It can also support multiple binds and be configurable.

Further details and information on the various service facades and other functionality described throughout this disclosure can be found in the U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 294 766 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety including all of the Appendices filed therewith.

Throughout the various contexts described in this disclosure the embodiments of the invention further encompass computer apparatus computing systems and machine readable media configured to carry out the foregoing systems and methods. In addition to an embodiment consisting of specifically designed integrated circuits or other electronics the present invention may be conveniently implemented using a conventional general purpose or a specialized digital computer or microprocessor programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the computer art.

Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. The invention may also be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

The various embodiments include a computer program product which is a storage medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program a general purpose or specialized computing processor s device s to perform any of the features presented herein. The storage medium can include but is not limited to one or more of the following any type of physical media including floppy disks optical discs DVDs CD ROMs microdrives magneto optical disks holographic storage ROMs RAMs PRAMS EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs VRAMs flash memory devices magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs paper or paper based media and any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or information. The computer program product can be transmitted in whole or in parts and over one or more public and or private networks wherein the transmission includes instructions which can be used by one or more processors to perform any of the features presented herein. The transmission may include a plurality of separate transmissions. In accordance with certain embodiments however the computer storage medium containing the instructions is non transitory i.e. not in the process of being transmitted but rather is persisted on a physical device.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the present invention has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations can be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. Embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the relevant art to understand the invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

