---

title: Smoking article with a restrictor
abstract: A smoking article filter includes a flow restrictor and a cavity downstream of the flow restrictor. The flow restrictor includes an orifice or flow channel for directing smoke into the cavity. The filter is attached to the tobacco rod with tipping paper and includes an air-admissible ventilating zone at a location downstream of the restrictor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09060546&OS=09060546&RS=09060546
owner: Philip Morris USA Inc.
number: 09060546
owner_city: Richmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110110
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 727 825 entitled SMOKING ARTICLE WITH A RESTRICTOR filed on Mar. 28 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 878 963 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 786 352 filed on Mar. 28 2006 U.S. provisional Application No. 60 858 407 filed Nov. 13 2006 and U.S. provisional Application No. 60 905 833 filed Mar. 9 2007 the entire content of each is incorporated herein by reference.

Heretofore cigarettes with high levels of ventilation have usually had unacceptably low levels of resistance to draw RTD unless some counter measure was in place to make up the shortfall in RTD. In the past high density cellulose acetate filter segments were used to address the shortfall. However such filtered segments tended to reduce tar delivery FTC with little or no effect upon gas phase components of mainstream tobacco smoke such as carbon monoxide CO and nitrogen oxide NO . This solution tended to worsen the CO to tar FTC ratios in lower delivery FTC tar cigarettes.

Ventilation has a desirable attribute in that when operating alone it will reduce both the particulate phase and the gas phase constituencies of mainstream smoke. Highly ventilated cigarettes however have drawbacks in RTD as previously discussed.

Presently disclosed embodiments provide the benefit of a highly ventilated smoking article with desired amounts of resistance to draw and or provisions for facilitating high speed cigarette manufacturing utilizing high speed filter rod and cigarette making equipment.

Referring to a preferred embodiment provides a smoking article comprising a tobacco rod and a filter connected with the tobacco rod by a tipping paper . Preferably the filter comprises a first filter segment at an upstream end portion of the filter a mouthpiece filter segment at downstream end portion of the filter and a flow restricting restrictor filter segment situated between the first and mouthpiece filter segments and . In this embodiment filter segments and are low particulate efficiency filter segments preferably constructed from cellulose acetate tow of 8.0 denier per filament or greater and 35 000 total denier or less for example. In a preferred embodiment regardless of the manner of construction of the low particulate efficiency filter segment such efficiency is preferably as low as possible preferably lower than 30 even more preferably lower than approximately 20 efficiency. In this embodiment the flow restricting filter segment comprises an annular partition that defines an orifice or flow restriction of reduced diameter. Preferably the flow restricting filter segment also includes a tubular body portion in downstream relation to the annular partition . The tubular body portion includes a plurality of elongate holes that are circumferentially disposed about the tubular body segment portion . The flow restricting filter segment further comprises a second upstream tubular body portion that spaces the flow restriction a predetermined distance apart from the first filter segment preferably approximately 1 to approximately 6 millimeters mm preferably approximately 1 to 3 mm.

A ventilating zone is established with a first row and optionally second and possibly third rows of ventilation holes through the tipping paper . In the preferred embodiment the holes provided about the circumference of the flow restricting filter segment are overlapped by superposed by at least some of the ventilation holes at the ventilating zone so that air may be drawn through the ventilation holes at zone and through the flow restricting filter segment and into cavity defined between the flow restriction and the mouthpiece filter segment .

Preferably the ventilating zone is located near or adjacent to the restriction and spaced from the mouthpiece filter so that air drawn through the ventilation zone is allowed to mix with the mainstream smoke before arriving at the mouthpiece filter .

Preferably the distance between the ventilation zone and the mouthpiece filter is at least 5 mm or in the range of 5 12 mm.

Preferably the ventilation zone and the holes in the flow restricting filter segment achieve a ventilation level of the smoking article of at least 25 and more preferably at least 50 to 90 .

Referring now also to it may be desirable to provide several ventilating zones at locations in superposing relation to the holes provided in the flow restricting filter segment so as to achieve the more elevated ventilation levels.

Referring now to the partition that establishes the flow restriction may be frustoconical and convergent either into or away from the direction of flow of mainstream smoke passing therethrough as indicated by the arrows in . Furthermore they may comprise a pair of partitions and that are arranged internally within the flow restricting filter segment so as to provide end to end symmetry for the flow restricting filter segment. A filter component having end to end symmetry facilitates high speed filter rod making in that the component works the same whether or not the rod making machine orients one end of the component first or reverses it.

Referring now to an alternate embodiment of the present invention includes a flow restricting filter segment having end to end symmetry by reason of the first tubular body portion of the flow restricting filter segment being of equal length with the second upstream tubular body portion of the flow restricting filter segment . In this embodiment the second upstream tubular body portion includes a plurality of holes about its circumference in same fashion as holes are disposed about the circumference of first downstream tubular body portion . By such arrangement manufacture of the filter is facilitated by the end to end symmetry of the flow restricting filter segment .

Furthermore the embodiment of also provides opportunity to define a second zone X of ventilation upstream of the restriction in addition to or in lieu of ventilation zone as provided in the preferred embodiment.

Referring now to a preferred embodiment provides a smoking article comprising a tobacco rod and a filter connected with the tobacco rod by a tipping paper . Preferably the filter comprises a first filter segment at an upstream end portion of the filter a mouthpiece filter segment at downstream end portion of the filter and a flow restricting filter segment situated between the first and mouthpiece filter segments and and preferably adjacent the first upstream filter segment . The flow restricting segment preferably includes one or more flow restriction passages there through. In this embodiment filter segments and are low particulate efficiency filter segments preferably constructed from less densely packed large diameter fiber cellulose acetate tow of approximately 5.0 denier to approximately 15.0 denier per filament dpf such as 8 dpf and approximately 10 000 to approximately 50 000 total denier td such as 35 000 td. Also in this embodiment a relatively short flow restricting filter segment hereinafter restrictor disc is adjacent the first upstream filter plug of a length of approximately 3 to 10 mm more preferably approximately 3 mm to 7 mm in length. In this embodiment a central cavity within the filter is defined at least in part by a tubular filter segment such as a cylindrical cellulosic tube and by the spaced apart relation of the mouthpiece filter and the restrictor disc . A ventilation zone is provided at a location along the cavity which location is preferably downstream of the restrictor segment and spaced apart from the mouthpiece segment . The tubular filter segment is preferably constructed from a relatively heavy filter plug paper or other material such as a hollow cellulose acetate tube.

In this embodiment the ventilation zone comprises a plurality of ventilation holes which extend through the tipping paper and optionally through the tubular filter segment . If the tubular filter segment is constructed of paper it is preferred that the ventilation holes extend through the tubular segment . In either case this arrangement facilitates the use of online laser perforation techniques to provide ventilation holes during the manufacture of the smoking article . Other techniques may be used to create the ventilation zone such as using off line pre perforated tipping paper mechanical perforation electrostatic perforation and other techniques.

Referring now to and Table 1 below for unlit cigarettes having downstream ventilation and an upstream restriction a desired degree of ventilation approximately 70 is maintained throughout the puff count.

Referring now to in contrast when ventilation holes are placed upstream of the restriction ventilation tends to drop as one progresses through the puff count.

A cigarette having an upstream restrictor with downstream ventilation as described herein can provide various effects during smoking. For example as flow rate of a puff increases pressure drop at the restrictor increases more rapidly compared to a conventional CA filter. Thus the restrictor works in this configuration as a limiter on the extent to which a smoker may attempt to draw harder on a smoking article during a puff. In addition having the ventilation zone downstream of the restrictor orifice decouples their respective functionalities ventilation levels and RTD respectively such that a cigarette designer may adjust RTD by changing the size of the restrictor orifice essentially without impacting ventilation levels already established at the ventilation zone and vice versa.

Referring to another embodiment provides a smoking article comprising a tobacco rod and a filter connected with the tobacco rod by a tipping paper . Preferably the filter comprises a first filter segment constructed from cellulose acetate tow at an upstream end portion of the filter a mouthpiece filter segment constructed from cellulose acetate tow at a downstream end portion of the filter and a restrictor disc situated between the first and mouthpiece filter segments and and preferably downstream of and adjacent to the first filter segment . In this embodiment the cavity within the filter is defined at least in part by a preferably spiral wound paper tube that preferably extends the whole length of the filter and is sufficiently strong to be self sustaining yet thin enough to accommodate on line laser perforation. The cavity is further defined by the spaced apart relation of the mouthpiece filter and the restrictor disc . The outer annulus of the restrictor disc preferably has a sliding fit with the inner surface of paper tube . A ventilation zone is provided at a location along the cavity which location is preferably downstream of the restrictor segment and spaced apart from the mouthpiece segment . The tube can be made using other materials or other forming techniques such as molding or extruding the tube or forming a tube with a longitudinal seam. Preferably the filter segments and have low particulate efficiency and are constructed as previously described.

Referring to another embodiment provides a smoking article comprising a tobacco rod and a filter connected with the tobacco rod by a tipping paper . Preferably the filter comprises a first filter segment constructed from carbon on tow at an upstream portion of the filter a second filter segment constructed from cellulose acetate tow downstream of the first filter segment a mouthpiece filter segment constructed from cellulose acetate tow at a downstream end portion of the filter and a restrictor disc situated between the second and mouthpiece filter segments and . In this embodiment the outer annulus of restrictor disc is preferably slightly frustoconical to facilitate plunging of restrictor disc along tube from left to right as shown in . Preferably as in the previous embodiment a cavity extends from the mouthpiece filter to the flow restriction and a ventilation zone communicates with the cavity at a location spaced from the mouth piece plug .

Referring to another embodiment provides a smoking article comprising a tobacco rod and a filter connected with the tobacco rod by a tipping paper . In this embodiment the layout of the filter is like that of the embodiments described above in reference to except that the restrictor disc preferably is symmetrical or has end to end symmetry so that the restrictor disc can be reversed without affecting its performance. Preferably the disc has beveled edges to facilitate sliding. This version of the restrictor disc may be used in the filter layout described with reference to and as well.

Referring to embodiments provide a smoking article comprising a tobacco rod and a filter connected with the tobacco rod by a tipping paper . In these embodiments the filters are like those of the embodiments described with reference to respectively but without the mouthpiece filter segment so that impaction and other filtration effects are further minimized.

In manufacturing embodiments having a filter segment a two up mouthpiece filter segment is first disposed at the central location of the two up tube and the restrictor plugs are set in place. Thereafter one up segments and then the one up carbon on tow segment are plunged or otherwise placed on opposite sides adjacent the restrictor plugs.

Referring to preferred dimensions for an 83 mm smoking article include for example a filter length of 27 mm comprising a paper tubing 27 mm in length a mouth end filter segment length of 7 mm ventilation holes 12 mm from the mouth end of the smoking article a restrictor disc length of 5 mm length separated from the mouth end segment by a 5 mm long cavity a cellulose acetate CA tow segment length of 2.5 mm upstream of the restrictor disc and a carbon on tow COT filter segment length of 7 mm upstream of the CA segment.

The ventilation zone is established with a first row and optionally second and possibly third rows of ventilation holes through the tipping paper and filter tube . Accordingly air is preferably drawn through the ventilation holes of ventilation zone and into the cavity defined between the flow restriction and the mouthpiece filter segment .

Preferably the ventilation zone is located near or adjacent to the flow restriction and spaced from the mouthpiece filter so that air drawn through the ventilation zone is allowed to mix with the mainstream smoke before arriving at the mouthpiece filter . Preferably the distance between the ventilation zone and the mouthpiece filter is at least 5 mm or in the range of 5 20 mm. By such arrangement impaction of mainstream smoke at the mouthpiece filter is minimized.

Preferably the ventilation zone achieves a ventilation level of the smoking article of at least 25 and more preferably at least 50 to 90 e.g. 60 70 or 80 .

The restrictor disc may comprise an impermeable partition transverse wall having one or more orifices therein that establishes the flow restriction with the restriction specifically in the form of an orifice of reduced diameter. If desired the partition can be perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the smoking article or frustoconical and convergent either into or away from the direction of flow of mainstream smoke passing therethrough. Furthermore the restrictor disc may be configured to provide end to end symmetry. A filter component having end to end symmetry facilitates high speed filter rod making in that the component works the same whether or not the rod making machine orients one end of the component first or reverses it.

A restrictor disc having end to end symmetry has tubular body portions of equal length on opposite sides of a transverse wall partition . By such arrangement manufacture of the filter is facilitated by the end to end symmetry of the restrictor disc .

Optionally a zone of ventilation may be located upstream of the flow restriction in addition to ventilation zone as provided above.

Manufacture of the smoking articles in accordance with the present disclosure may be facilitated with the use of pre perforated tipping paper.

Preferably the flow restriction is sized to contribute sufficient pressure drop such that the smoking article presents a resistance to draw of at least 40 mm water or greater preferably in the range of 50 100 mm water. Preferably the partition transverse wall has a diameter of approximately 7.0 to 8.0 mm and more preferably approximately 7.4 to 7.8 mm wherein the partition preferably has one or optionally more than one orifice of a diameter of about 0.5 mm to about 1.0 mm and more preferably about 0.5 to 0.7 mm. Since the pressure drop of the restrictor component depends on the open area multiple orifices can also be used. For example in one embodiment there are two orifices in the partition of 0.5 mm diameter each.

The restrictor disc may be constructed of paper a plastic polymer or a metal and more preferably made of a paper product or a biodegradable plastic polymer or other suitable material having biodegradability properties. However in the case of plastic being used the restrictor disc in the embodiments shown in FIGS. and is small and the non biodegradable content of the filter is minimized.

Preferably the flow restriction and the mouthpiece filter are spaced apart sufficiently to reduce impaction of particulate smoke components upon the upstream face of the mouthpiece filter . Preferably the flow restriction is spaced approximately 4 mm to 20 mm from the mouthpiece filter more preferably approximately 6 to 10 mm.

It is to be appreciated that the filter preferably may be constructed from simple combining techniques typically used in the industry for manufacturing cigarettes at high speeds. Additionally each embodiment includes tubular support about the cavity so as to provide desired firmness throughout length of the filter . Furthermore the embodiments provide the necessary amount of resistance to draw while maintaining the desired degree of high ventilation throughout the puff count. The latter attribute is achieved by placement of the ventilation zone downstream of the flow restriction . Furthermore placing the ventilation along cavity assures mixing of air drawn into the filter through the ventilation zone with mainstream smoke drawn from the tobacco rod . In one tested embodiment uniform stain patterns appeared at the buccal end of the mouthpiece filter which is indicative of good mixing.

During smoking of a cigarette constructed in accordance with the present disclosure a consistent degree of ventilation e.g. 50 to 90 preferably about 70 is preferably maintained throughout the puff count as shown in and Table 1.

In contrast when ventilation holes are placed upstream of the flow restriction ventilation tends to drop as smoking progresses through the puff count as shown in and Table 1.

Referring now to a smoking article comprising a tobacco rod and a filter connected with the tobacco rod by tipping paper is shown. Preferably the filter comprises an optional filter segment of low particulate efficiency at an upstream end portion and an optional mouthpiece filter segment of low particulate efficiency at the downstream end of the filter . Preferably a flow restricting filter segment or component is situated upstream of a ventilation zone that communicates with a cavity .

In a preferred embodiment a smoking article includes a flow restricting filter segment received in an air transmissive tubular segment . During manufacturing operations a T restrictor insert is plunged into the upstream end portion of the tubular segment .

In this embodiment the tubular segment is constructed from cellulose acetate tow sometimes referred to as a hollow acetate tube or HAT and the T restrictor insert includes a transverse disc shaped wall with one or more openings therein and a longitudinal tubular section extending therefrom having a length of about 3 mm to about 10 mm more preferably about 3 mm to about 7 mm in length. The T insert includes an outer rim which is wider than the tubular section such that the insert looks T shaped in a side view.

In an embodiment a central cavity within the filter is defined at least in part by the tubular segment and optionally in part by the space enclosed by the tubular section of the restrictor insert . Preferably a ventilation zone communicates with the cavity at a location downstream of the restrictor insert . The tubular segment is preferably constructed from a hollow acetate tube HAT and is preferably air permeable low density so that ventilation air may be drawn through ventilation holes into the cavity during a puff. Other low density low filtration materials can also be used to construct the tubular segment .

During a puff mainstream smoke is drawn through an orifice illustrated in in the transverse smoke impermeable wall disc of the T restrictor through the cavity where it is mixed with ventilation air that is drawn into the cavity via the ventilation zone . In an embodiment the orifice is preferably a constant diameter. In another embodiment the diameter of the orifice varies along the length of the orifice.

In a preferred embodiment the ventilation zone comprises a plurality of ventilation holes arranged in one or more circumferential rows which extend through the tipping paper and optionally partially into or through the tubular segment . This arrangement facilitates the use of off line laser perforation techniques to provide ventilation holes . Other techniques may be used to create the ventilation zone such as using on line laser perforation mechanical pin perforation techniques electrostatic perforation and other techniques.

The ventilation holes in the tipping paper allow atmospheric air to be drawn into the ventilation zone through the tubular segment and into the cavity . When a hollow acetate tube forms at least part of the tubular segment perforations need not be made in the tubular filter segment because the material is air permeable.

In a preferred embodiment the ventilation zone and the tubular filter segment achieve a ventilation level of the smoking article of at least about 25 and more preferably at least about 50 to about 90 .

Referring now to in another embodiment the smoking article includes a filter with an upstream filter segment having central recesses extending into each end. The recesses are axially aligned with the orifice of the T restrictor insert that is plunged into the tubular portion as in . The recess adjacent the restrictor insert prevents blockage of the orifice from accumulation of tar particles and or condensates during smoking.

In a preferred embodiment the elongated portion of the T restrictor forms a channel with dimensions of about 3 mm to about 9 mm in diameter and about 7 mm to about 10 mm in length. Preferably the tubular portion fits snuggly inside the tubular segment which is preferably a hollow acetate tube. The transverse wall is preferably sized to cover a substantial portion of the end of the hollow acetate tube once the tubular portion has been inserted therein.

Referring now to in an embodiment the T restrictor insert can include barbs . The barbs anchor the T restrictor insert inside the hollow acetate tube HAT when the elongated portion of the T restrictor insert is inserted into the HAT.

For ease of manufacturing on high speed filter rod making equipment the outer diameter of the rim is less than that of the original diameter of the tubular segment prior to filter rod making operations. Preferably the diameter of the rim is smaller than the pre determined diameter of the cigarette to be made. For example for a cigarette having a circumference of 24.1 mm the circumference of the rim is preferably 1 to 10 smaller e.g. approximately 23.9 mm or less in the example. As is typically done in established filter rod making techniques the original diameter or the HAT segment is slightly oversized so that it may be uniformly compressed into the desired diameter e.g. 24.1 mm and held in place by the plug wrap during filter making operations. Because the rim is of lesser diameter the T restrictor insert passes through the garniture of a filter rod making machine without snagging.

Preferably the T restrictor insert is a single piece that is injection molded. The T restrictor insert is preferably made of a plastic metal cellulosic material and or composite of a plastic and starch. Suitable plastics include without limitation polypropylene polyethylene polystyrene nylon polysulfone polyester polyurethane and combinations thereof.

Referring now to in an example of a high speed manufacturing technique pairs of HAT segments are each respectively situated along flutes of a drum between opposing pairs of 2 up T restrictor inserts and are all pushed together so that a pair of 2 up HAT restrictor assemblies are established on each flute which assemblies are each 26 mm long. The pairs are then fed or placed into a first hopper of an upstream section of a double action plug tube combiner DAPTC combiner. More preferably this insertion step may be performed on drums just below the hopper . From the first hopper the 2 up HAT restrictor assemblies are separated and fed in spaced apart relation onto an endless feed belt of a Molins double action plug tube combiner or other combining machine of similar capabilities.

Similarly continuous cellulose acetate low particulate efficiency filter rods are produced and cut into a plurality of CA 6 up 84 mm long rods which are fed or placed into a second hopper of the DAPTC combiner. During combining operations the 6 up rods are further cut and sorted into 2 up 14 mm segments corresponding to a 2 up version of the upstream filter segment of and placed in alternating relation to the restrictor assemblies on the feed belt .

At the downstream travel portion of the feed belt a rotating spacer drum establishes a continuous closed up procession of the alternating 2 up restrictor assemblies and 2 up CA segments in mutually abutting end to end relation with one after another. Downstream of the rotating spacer drum the procession is transferred onto a ribbon of plug wrap . A garniture belt draws both the procession and the plug wrap through a garniture whereat the plug wrap is wrapped about the procession of plugs so as to form a continuous filter rod . Preferably one or more glue guns apply a desired pattern of glue continuously and or at spaced locations along the ribbon of plug wrap to retain filter rod in its final form. Again because the rims of the T restrictor inserts are undersized relative to the target diameter of the filter rod they pass through the garniture and remain set in place at spaced location along the rod .

Downstream of the garniture a cutter severs the continuous rod so as to repetitively form a 6 up restrictor upstream segment assembly rod . The 6 up rod preferably comprises the following segments from one end to the other a 1 up 7 mm CA segment at one end of the rod a first 26 mm 2 up restrictor assembly segment a 14 mm 2 up CA segment a second 26 mm 2 up restrictor assembly segment a second 14 mm 2 up CA segment a third 26 mm 2 up restrictor assembly segment and a second 1 up 7 mm at the opposite end of the rod. The 6 up rods are then fed or placed into a first hopper of a dual hopper max tipping machine or a machine of similar capabilities.

Referring now to the 6 up 120 mm rods are then cut into three 2 up rods at drum then graded at drum aligned at drum whereupon each is cut centrally and spaced apart into opposing pairs of sub assemblies along each flute of the drum . Each sub assembly comprises a 1 up 7 mm CA segment corresponding to the upstream segment in a T restrictor insert and a 1 up HAT segment whose open end portion is directed inwardly along the respective drum flute. The pairs of sub assemblies are then spaced apart sufficiently to receive 2 up 14 mm CA plugs therebetween. The 2 up plugs each correspond to a 2 up version of the downstream mouthpiece filter segments shown in .

The 2 up plugs are preferably constructed from similar cutting grading and aligning operations on 6 up 84 mm long filter rods at drums and of the DHMAX represented in with further cut grade and align operations occurring at or about the drum .

Referring back to operations at the plugs are brought together at drum to form a complete 2 up filter structures which are then fed in between pairs of spaced apart tobacco rods as illustrated in and wrapped with tipping paper in accordance with the usual tipping operations of a Dual Hopper Max to form a completed 2 up cigarette structure . Thereafter the 2 up cigarette structure is severed and the cigarettes are aligned at drum whereupon they are directed to a packer from whence they go to a cartoner and to a case packer .

Hollow acetate filter plugs may be produced in continuous fashion from a tubular filter rod maker such as the maker as described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 637 447 to Berger et al. Subsequent combining and tipping operations may be executed on a Molins double action plug tube combiner DATPC . Preferably the tobacco rods are constructed on a conventional cigarette rod making machine such as a Molins Mark 9 tobacco rod maker wherein cut filler preferably blended is air formed into a continuous rod of tobacco on a traveling belt and enwrapped with a continuous ribbon of plug wrap which is then glued along its longitudinal seam and sealed with adhesive.

The output of the tobacco rod maker is then cut and delivered to a tipping machine such as a Hauni Dual Hopper Max that has been modified to execute the combining and tipping operations described herein.

In another embodiment as illustrated in the flow restriction segment includes a torturous preferably spiral channel in filter to introduce the desired resistance to draw. The spiral smoke flow pattern through the restrictor can reduce gas vapor phase of mainstream smoke by diffusion absorption adsorption and or can reduce larger or heavier smoke particles by centrifugation and impaction.

Preferably as seen in a spiral flow channel opens into a large central cavity and is preferably located upstream of the ventilation zone of the filter . Preferably the channel is formed in an impermeable material. Preferably the spiral channel is made of a material selected from the group consisting of high density polyethylene compressed cellulosic materials and combinations thereof. Regular wrapping paper carbon paper or carbon on tow is wrapped around the segment to enclose the spiral flow path for smoke. Preferably the spiral channel has an inner diameter of about 0.30 mm to about 1.5 mm and a length of about 10 mm to about 200 mm.

In an embodiment flavorants or colorants can be added to the material surrounding the spiral channel . Examples of flavorants include licorice sugar isosweet cocoa lavender cinnamon cardamom apium graveolens fenugreek cascarilla sandalwood bergamot geranium honey essence rose oil vanilla lemon oil orange oil mint oils cassia caraway cognac jasmine chamomile menthol cassia sage spearmint ginger coriander coffee and the like.

In this embodiment smoke is drawn through the channel during a puff and the channel acts as a flow restrictor. Depending on the cross section and length of the channel a desired pressure drop across the segment can be achieved.

The channel leads to a cavity within the filter that is defined at least in part by a tubular segment such as a cellulosic tube extending from end to end of filter . A ventilation zone is introduced downstream of the spiral channel . Perforations in the tipping paper and the cylindrical tubular filter segment provide for ventilation and the tubular segment may optionally be constructed of fibers so as to be air permeable.

The spiral flow channel can be finely tuned to selectively allow only a particular range or size of smoke for example semi volatile enriched smoke aerosol particles to pass to the cavity . Both gas phase and particulate phase smoke can be reduced but preferably the flavor rich semi volatiles are allowed to remain in the smoke. When a carbon paper or sheet material containing adsorbents is wrapped around the spiral segment the gas phase components of the smoke being drawn through the filter channel may diffuse out or the filter and or contact the paper longer resulting in capture of targeted constituents. The heavy or large aerosol particles experiencing centrifugation or impaction action can also be trapped. The materials for example paper foam or starch based plastics used to form the segment can be chosen or treated to enhance a particular filtration selectivity or to deliver flavor. For example the material can be treated with a waxy or oil material to enhance removal of non polar component or treated with glycerin to enhance removal of polar compounds.

Referring still to the spiral flow restrictor segment could be used to remove any fine carbon particles that may have become entrained in the mainstream smoke commonly referred to as carbon breakthrough. This functionality may be enhanced by including an agent along the wrap adjacent the spiral channel that has an affinity for the carbon particles. The agent can be a sticky or entraining substance or material such as wax glycerin or other carbon catching agent.

Referring to another embodiment comprises a smoking article constructed according to the same layout such as described with respect to the embodiments described in FIGS. and except for there being a restrictor segment having a central channel whose diameter and length are selected to impart a desired level of RTD as previously described. Preferably the channel is flared at its ends so as to avoid build up of particles and condensates. Optionally the first filter segment may be provided with recesses which when positioned adjacent the end of the channel help further abate build up at channel .

Referring to in an embodiment the restrictor segment may include a filter plug having at least one spiral groove formed therein. Preferably the at least one spiral groove acts as an orifice through which smoke can pass. In this embodiment the desired level of pressure drop RTD is a function of the channel diameter and length of the channel so the degree of spiral is adjusted to provide requisite pressure drop for a particular channel diameter.

Referring to the restrictor segment may instead comprise a cellulose acetate filter plug of low particulate efficiency filtering material coated or treated about an annular zone on one or optionally both ends so as to define an orifice at an untreated zone . Preferably a small portion of the end of the filter plug is left uncoated or untreated so as to form an orifice through which mainstream smoke may flow. In an embodiment the occlusive agent is an extra amount of triacetin that is applied to one end so as to render the annular region impermeable to smoke. In another embodiment heat treatment is applied to the region to render it impermeable to smoke. To avoid difficulties in high speed manufacturing preferably the coating or treatment is not applied in an annular zone adjacent the periphery of the plug so as to allow slight compression to occur in this region of the plug when passing through a garniture or a rod making machine and being wrapped with plug wrap. The region could instead be covered with an impermeable ring of paper of film forming agent or adhesive.

Referring now to in a preferred embodiment the restrictor segment includes a low particulate efficiency cellulose acetate filter plug upstream of the ventilation zone . Preferably the cellulose acetate filter plug is coated or treated about an annular zone on one end so as to define an orifice at an untreated zone . Preferably a small portion of the end of the filter plug is left uncoated or untreated so as to form an orifice through which smoke may flow. In a preferred embodiment when assembled the coated end is located at a downstream of the filter segment . The layout of the smoking article in is arranged to perform in like manner to those of and .

When manufacturing the restrictor of the CA plugs from Hopper in are cut as previously described to produce 14 mm 2 up segments at which point each face is treated to create orifices of the restrictor at opposite ends of the 14 mm 2 up segments and the operations conducted at the hopper no longer need to include the T restrictor inserts .

As shown in Table 2 the filter achieves significant smoke constituent reductions without the taste penalty associated by Americans with carbon filters.

It will be understood that the foregoing description is of the preferred embodiments and is therefore merely representative of the article and methods of manufacturing the same. It can be appreciated that variations and modifications of the different embodiments in light of the above teachings will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. For example various filters are described as being constructed of cellulose acetate tow whereas other materials such as filter paper carbon paper polypropylene and other similar materials could be used instead. Accordingly the exemplary embodiments as well as alternative embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the articles and methods as set forth in the attached claims.

