---

title: Systems and methods for providing multiple entities with access to account information
abstract: A user may log into a system containing data pertaining to a jointly owned funding account of which he is a co-owner. The user may view information directed to the jointly owned funding account, such as his bills and bills associated with other co-owners. The user may pay bills or schedule payments of bills from the funding account. A co-owner of the funding account may set up an account with a biller and enable other co-owners of the funding account to use this information, thereby providing the other co-owners with the same or similar functionality when they log into the system using their own login information. The information that the co-owner may set up with a biller may be ported over to the information maintained by the system that is directed to the other co-owners.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08341082&OS=08341082&RS=08341082
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08341082
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110111
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 854 858 filed on Sep. 13 2007. This application is also related in subject matter to and incorporates herein by reference in its entirety each of the following U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 854 819 filed on Sep. 13 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 854 032 filed on Sep. 13 2007.

Joint funding account owners who wish to pay bills online via the Internet or another network from the funding account must either individually register the account with a biller or must share login access to the account. If each joint funding account owner registers the account with the biller this results in additional work and data entry for the account owners and leads to an increased likelihood of data entry error and security compromise. If joint funding account owners share login access to an account then one of the account owners legitimately registers the account and must share his access information such as username and password with other account owner s . However an account owner may not wish to share his access information with other account owner s and may at some point change his access information thereby denying the other owner s access to the joint funding account.

In some situations a funding account may be registered to a single owner but that single owner may desire or require oversight e.g. a child a businessperson an elderly person . The funding account is not accessible to another person such as a parent business colleague or caretaker unless that person logs in to the account using the owner s access information. This increases the likelihood of a security compromise and also requires cooperation by the funding account owner. If the owner changes his access information such as his username or password the person who is monitoring the funding account for the owner may be denied access to the funding account.

An entity such as a user may log into a system associated with a financial services institution or other entity via the Internet or other network for example using a computing device. The system may contain data or other information pertaining to a jointly owned funding account of which he is a co owner. The user may view information directed to the jointly owned funding account such as his bills and bills associated with other co owners. The user may pay bills or schedule payments of bills from the funding account.

A co owner of a jointly owned funding account may set up an account with a biller and enable other co owners of the jointly owned funding account to use this information thereby providing the other co owners with the same or similar functionality when they log into the system using their own login information. The information that the co owner may set up with a biller may be ported over to the information maintained by the system that is directed to the other co owners. In this manner the other co owners do not have to register with the biller but may still receive bills and access the biller information using their own login information to the jointly owned funding account.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

in an implementation an entity such as a user may log into a system via the Internet or other network for example using a computing device. The system may be associated with a financial services institution or other company or entity and may contain data or other information pertaining to a jointly owned funding account also referred to herein as a joint funding account of which he is a co owner. The user may view information directed to the jointly owned funding account. The user may view his bills as well as bills associated with other co owners e.g. a spouse a child a business partner etc. . The user may pay any of the bills from the funding account. A joint funding account may be an account in which users have joint tenant access to the funding account.

In an implementation a co owner of a joint funding account may set up an account with a biller and enable other co owners of the joint funding account to use the information thereby providing the other co owners with the same or similar functionality when they log into the system having the joint funding account using their own login information. The information that the co owner set up with a biller may be ported over to the information maintained by the system that is directed to the other co owners. In this manner the other co owners do not have to register with the biller but may still receive their and perhaps others bills and access the biller information using their own login information to the joint account. In an implementation users on the same joint funding account may share biller information as well as information pertaining to scheduled payments and completed payments.

The account may be a funding account such as a checking account money market mutual fund account or other account associated with a funding source. In an implementation the two users may share access to the account and may each have signature authority on the account . The users may include any entities such as family members including spouses siblings parents and children or other relatives or may be less formally related and may include friends colleagues classmates partners guardians and caretakers for example.

The users may access the financial services institution system or a website associated with the financial services institution system for example via an associated user computing device . The users may identify themselves and authenticate themselves to the financial services institution system using any known techniques. An example user computing device is described with respect to .

One or more of the users may have an account or other relationship with one or more billers. One biller is shown in although it is contemplated that multiple billers may have relationships with one or more users. A biller may be a credit card company a utility company a financial services institution that is different from or the same as the financial services institution system or any entity or vendor that a user has an account with or that may be owed money by a user.

The biller may provide a bill associated with one of the users to the financial services institution system . The bill may then be presented on one or more pages of content that are provided to one of the users when he logs onto a website associated with the financial services institution system . The user may authenticate himself to the financial services institution system via the website using any known authentication technique and may receive the page s of content on a display device associated with the user computing device . The page s of content may display information associated with the account along with the bill and which user is associated with or received the bill . The bills that may be received displayed and or paid may be associated with or generated by the financial services institution that maintains the joint funding account or may be a third party biller.

A user s information and information related to another user may be retrieved and displayed e.g. on the same or on individual pages of content. So in an implementation there may a user s page and his spouse s page. The user may then access his spouse s page by logging into the system to access the joint funding account and may review and or pay his spouse s bills.

The financial services institution system may also comprise a computing device . A user may use their associated user computing device to interact with the computing device . The computing device may have one or more processors storage e.g. storage devices memory etc. and software modules . The computing device including its processor s storage and software modules may be used in the performance of the techniques and operations described herein. Information associated with the account may be stored in storage or other storage for example.

Example software modules may include modules for receiving a bill from a biller and associating it with an account identifying and authenticating a user generating web page content for display and receiving payment instructions from a user described further herein. While specific functionality is described herein as occurring with respect to specific modules the functionality may likewise be performed by more fewer or other modules. The functionality may be distributed among more than one module. An example computing device and its components are described in more detail with respect to .

The user may provide biller information to the account such as the name of a utility company and his account number or the name of a credit card and his account number and this information may be received processed and or stored by the financial services institution system at operation . This may allow the financial services institution system to link to or otherwise access or receive a bill from the biller. The user may provide the biller information via a user interface in conjunction with a page of content or other feature of the website for example.

The user may provide information pertaining to another entity such as one or more other users associated with the account e.g. co owners that may be associated with the biller and this information may be received processed and or stored by the financial services institution system at operation . The information may comprise the other user s name s identifier s or account number s for example. The user may provide information pertaining to some users or co owners of the joint funding account and not provide information pertaining to other users or co owners. The user may provide this information via a user interface in conjunction with the page of content or other feature of the website for example.

At operation the financial services institution system ports provides or otherwise associates the information pertaining to the biller to co owners identified by the user. In an implementation the biller information may be integrated into information maintained by the financial services institution system that is directed to the co owners.

It is contemplated that the user may provide biller information to be associated with additional users while retaining some other biller information just for his access and which may not be ported provided or otherwise associated with other co owners of the joint funding account. In fact these other co owners may not be aware of such biller information.

Thus in an implementation the user who established the biller information or a co owner who has the biller information ported over to his account may log into the financial services institution system and via a website one or more pages of content and a user computing device see the co owned funding account information as well as any bills that may be provided by a biller regardless of which co owner or user the bills are associated with. The bills may be shown on the same page of content or separate pages of content such as bills associated with each user being displayed on separate pages of content.

Thus in an implementation two users may have a joint account with a biller such as a credit card company as well as a jointly owned funding account. The individual credit cards issued to each user may have the same credit card number or different numbers. One of the users may log into the financial services institution s website access the jointly owned funding account and provide the credit card joint account information along with the other user s name or other identification information to the financial services institution system. The credit card joint account information may then be associated with the other user. So when the other user logs in to access the jointly owned funding account he may see the information associated with the credit card company. He may then receive view and pay bills from the credit card company using the jointly owned funding account.

In an implementation two users who co own a funding account may each have separate accounts with a biller such as a credit card company. One of the users may access the jointly owned funding account and provide the credit card account information for the other user. This information may then be associated with the other user by the financial services institution system. Both users may be able to view and or pay the credit card bill associated with the other user using the jointly owned funding account. Each entity may have different signature authority.

At some point at operation before or after the user logs into the financial services institution system a bill may be received at the financial services institution system from a biller. The bill may be associated with the appropriate user as well as the other users associated with the jointly owned funding account that has been granted access to such a bill.

At operation the user may review the funding account information bills associated with the user and bills associated with other users. This information relating to accounts and bills may be provided to the user via one or more pages of content on a website associated with the financial services institution. At operation the user may pay or schedule payment of one or more of his bills and or one or more of the bills associated with other users. Payment may be made from the jointly owned funding account.

In an implementation the user may not be permitted to pay bills associated with other users the user may only pay bills that he has received and be blocked from paying the bills of other users. Such denial of payment privilege may be implemented by the other user or users.

In an implementation associated with delegated authority one of the users may be a primary account owner and one or more other users may be secondary account owners. The account privileges associated with a primary account owner may differ from the account privileges associated with a secondary account owner. One of the owners such as the secondary account owner may have delegated authority to the primary account owner.

In an implementation a parent acting as a primary account owner may view a child s bills e.g. the child is in college and is a secondary account owner and pay the child s bills directed to tuition and housing for example. The child may or may not be able to pay his bills depending on the privileges established by the parent acting as the primary account owner. Similarly the child may or may not be able to view the parent s bills based on the established privileges. The privileges may be set by the parent via a website associated with the financial services institution that maintains the funding account.

In an implementation a parent may give his child a credit card in the child s name. Thus the child may buy things and a bill may be generated and shown on a page of content pertaining to the joint funding account. The parent may monitor the card activity and pay the bill from the joint funding account. But the child may only view and pay his bills and may not be aware of the parent s other bills or even other activity on the credit card if the parent shares the credit card account with the child.

In an implementation the secondary account owner may only view his bills but cannot pay the bills. Only the primary account owner may pay the bills whether they have been received by the primary account owner or a secondary account owner. In another implementation the primary account owner may only view bills received by a secondary account owner but may not pay those bills such as in the case of a caretaker or business owner when the caretaker or business owner is the primary account owner who oversees the expenditures but does not participate in the payment of the bills.

Although only one secondary account owner is shown in any number of secondary account owners may be associated with a funding account just as any number of primary account owners may be associated with a funding account in some implementations.

Another entity user is shown in . User may be a primary account owner of another funding account unrelated to the funding account which has user as a primary account holder. User may have similar privileges or different privileges on his funding account as described above with respect to the privileges of user . In an implementation a secondary account owner such as user may be a secondary account owner with associated privileges on various funding accounts such as the funding account on which user is a primary account owner and the funding account on which user is a primary account owner. It is also contemplated that a user may be a primary account owner on one or more funding accounts and a secondary account owner on one or more other funding accounts. For example the primary account owner may a primary account owner on the funding account and a secondary account owner on the funding account so may have different privileges and accessibility on the accounts .

In an implementation a secondary account owner may be permitted access to view or pay some or all of the bills associated with a primary account owner. A primary account owner may grant such full or partial access by changing the privileges associated with the funding account. The privileges may be changed for a limited duration or may stay in effect until canceled or otherwise changed or revoked. Such changes may he made via the financial services institution s website in an implementation.

As an example a secondary account owner may be a caretaker who may be given access to the account and bills of a person the primary account owner the caretaker is caring for. Another example of a secondary account owner is a business person who may be given access to the account and hills being handled by another person affiliated with the business who is designated as the primary account owner. These secondary account owners may have access to view the bills associated with the primary owner of the account and may or may not have authority to pay the bills from the funding account.

At operation biller information is established for the users. Biller information may be provided by the primary account owner and then associated with the secondary account owner using techniques described herein such as those described above with respect to for example. Biller information may also be provided by the secondary account owner in an implementation.

At some point at operation one or more bills are received at the financial services institution system directed to the primary account owner and or the secondary account owner and are associated with the funding account. At operation the primary account owner or the secondary account owner may log onto the website and at operation may access the funding account and its associated information.

Depending on the implementation various privileges may be provided to the account owner who has logged in such as the ability to view and or pay some or all bills regardless of which account owner the bills are associated with. The account owner may then act in accordance with his privileges at operation by viewing and or paying bills for example.

After a bill has been paid or scheduled for payment it may be indicated that payment instructions have been received or indicated as paid or scheduled for payment for example by highlighting or by displaying an icon or other notation or indicator at operation . In this manner any account owner who subsequently accesses the funding account and its information may view the bill and see that it has already been paid or has been scheduled for payment. The bills and associated information for the various account owners may be presented on one or more pages of content either combined or separated by account owner depending on the implementation.

In an implementation each co owner or user of a joint funding account may be a member of an organization such as an organization associated with a financial services institution. A non member of the organization may not have access to a joint funding account. Accordingly delegation as described herein may only be given to another member.

Although some of the implementations described herein describe two entities or users sharing a joint account the implementations are not limited to two entities or users and it is contemplated that any number of entities or users may share a joint account in accordance with the subject matter disclosed herein.

Numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations may be used. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers PCs server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers embedded systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by a computer may be used. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Distributed computing environments may be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules and other data may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing aspects described herein includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features and or functionality. For example computing device may include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage .

Computing device typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computing device and include both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also contain communication connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All these devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may be one of a plurality of computing devices inter connected by a network. As may be appreciated the network may be any appropriate network each computing device may be connected thereto by way of communication connection s in any appropriate manner and each computing device may communicate with one or more of the other computing devices in the network in any appropriate manner. For example the network may be a wired or wireless network within an organization or home or the like and may include a direct or indirect coupling to an external network such as the Internet or the like.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include personal computers network servers and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

