---

title: Bi-directional circuit breaker
abstract: A circuit breaker comprising first and second JFETs, each comprising a gate, drain and source connection, the JFETs sources being operatively connected to each other to form a common-source connection and adapted to be connected to and operating to open an external circuit when the current flowing through the JFETs exceeds a predetermined threshold, the JFETs' gates, and common-source connection being operatively connected to a gate driver circuit which causes the JFETs to turn off when the predetermined threshold is exceeded; whereupon the current flows through the common-source connection into the second gate and into the gate driver circuit which causes the gate driver circuit to turn off the first and second JFETs and open the circuit breaker. Also claimed is a method of sensing an overloaded circuit comprising leading and trailing JFETs in a circuit that open the circuit and prevent current flow when a predetermined threshold is exceeded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08729739&OS=08729739&RS=08729739
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08729739
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110131
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 768 898 entitled Solid State Circuit Breaker listing as inventor Damian Urciuoli filed Apr. 28 2010 hereby incorporated by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates broadly to circuit breakers and in particular to circuit breakers comprising integrated circuits.

The present invention is directed to inter alia bidirectional current flow applications. In addition to AC systems many DC power electronic systems have bidirectional current flow through a single power distribution bus. Commonly these systems supply energy to and from electrical storage elements. Other AC and DC systems operate between active power sources and or potential power sources. In these cases a fault can result in an over current condition in either direction in the system. Some examples of these systems include hybrid electric vehicle drives grid tie photovoltaic inverter systems and bidirectional DC DC converters. Such systems cover a wide range of power levels generally require fault protection and benefit further from bidirectional fault protection.

For distributed and off grid power systems and hybrid electric ground vehicle power systems power electronic converters and power distribution equipment operating at up to several hundred volts and up to hundreds of kilowatts are being developed. To prevent damage to converters or other system components during fault conditions fault current interrupt speeds in tens to hundreds of microseconds are necessary. In many of these systems AC and DC power components operate between two voltage busses having independent sourcing capability and require bidirectional fault isolation. Such conditions can require fault protection systems having symmetric ratings for bidirectional voltage blocking in the off state and bidirectional current conduction in the on state.

In many applications bidirectional fault isolation is provided by mechanical contactors or relays. However mechanical fault protection devices often do not have adequate actuation speeds for protection of solid state system components. Furthermore these mechanical devices can suffer severe degradation dramatically reducing operating life or resulting in catastrophic system failure.

A preferred embodiment comprises a gate driver designed to enable an inherent hardware over current protection feature usable for example for high speed scalable bidirectional solid state circuit breakers BDSSCBs . The gate driver operates to sense bipolar gate current in reverse conducting junction field effect transistors JFETs connected in a series common source configuration and to provide proper gate control to transition the JFETs to the non conducting off state.

A preferred embodiment circuit breaker comprises first and second JFETs the first JFET comprising a first gate first drain and first source connection the second JFET comprising a second gate second drain and second source connection the first and second sources being operatively connected to each other to form a common source connection the first and second drains adapted to be connected to an external circuit having a current flowing therein the circuit breaker operating to open the external circuit when the current flowing through the JFETs exceeds a predetermined threshold the first and second gates and common source connection being operatively connected to a gate driver circuit which causes the JFETs to turn off when the predetermined threshold is exceeded whereby when a predetermined threshold is exceeded the current flows through the common source connection through the gate driver circuit and into the second gate which causes the gate driver circuit to turn off the first and second JFETs and thereby open the circuit breaker.

The preferred embodiment may optionally provide two control lines for external independent or synchronized JFET gate control. These lines can be used for manual control or for actuation from the output of other sensors or devices. For example optical couplers may be utilized which may be activated by light emitting diodes responsive to manual operation or a sensed condition such as a predetermined current level.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those skilled in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that when an element such as an object layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second JFETs in a pair these terms are only used to distinguish one JFET from another JFET. Thus a first JFET element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second JFET element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom and upper or top may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to other elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompass both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below. Furthermore the term outer may be used to refer to a surface and or layer that is farthest away from a substrate.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example a region or object illustrated as a rectangular will typically have tapered rounded or curved features. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that references to a structure or feature that is disposed adjacent another feature may have portions that overlap or underlie the adjacent feature.

Because mechanical contactors do not provide adequate actuation speeds in many applications and suffer severe degradation during repeated fault isolation a solid state circuit breaker SSCB is required. A set of normally on junction gate field effect transistor JFET devices fabricated from wide band gap semiconductor material having a collectively low conduction loss to provide large current handling capability and fast transition speed for current interruption can be applied. Advanced gate drivers are being developed for Silicon Carbide SiC vertical JFET VJFET devices. These JFET devices have voltage blocking ratings at or above 1200 V and low drain to source resistances for scalable bidirectional solid state circuit breaker BDSSCB applications.

In contrast to mechanical devices bidirectional solid state circuit breakers BDSSCBs even coupled with transient voltage suppression components can be actuated three orders of magnitude faster. Although practical BDSSCBs have higher conduction voltage drops than their mechanical counterparts current scalable designs can dramatically reduce on state losses and semiconductor packaging techniques can enable adequate cooling. BDSSCBs facilitate dramatic improvements in reliability and operating life resulting in superior system protection and reduced system maintenance and repair.

As JFET designs have been modified for more normally on operation the magnitude of negative gate biases required to block the rated 1200 V drain voltage have increased. Therefore gate drivers operating at more negative drive voltages may be needed for more normally on devices. Additionally gate driver components having ratings supporting more negative gate biases will provide more voltage margin in the BDSSCB gate driver implementation. The 1200 V rated 0.1 cmSiC JFETs used in a scaled experimental test were biased in the off state using a gate to source voltage of 33 V. The bias level was the minimum magnitude for meeting the full blocking rating of the JFETs and was selected to provide an operating margin for the 40 V maximum blocking rating of the unijunction transistor UJT . Because UJT device applications are limited very few UJT devices are available commercially thereby limiting UJT device parameters. This combination of factors has necessitated an alternate solution to replace the discrete UJT device.

A complementary pair of PNP and NPN BJTs can be connected as shown in to provide a similar function to the UJT. PNP and NPN BJTs of a 60 V rated dual complementary pair were evaluated in place of the UJT device in the test circuit shown in . The test circuit was designed to evaluate device triggering and effective anode to cathode conduction current. The BJT configuration triggered at a similar level to that of the UJT and conducted an effective anode to cathode continuous current in excess of 100 mA. Both results indicate that the complementary BJT configuration can be used to replace the UJT device and to provide higher effective anode to cathode voltage blocking. The maximum effective anode to gate blocking voltage of the complementary BJT configuration is typically 5 V compared to the 40 V rating for that of the UJT. However because a large resistance is connected in series with the gate of either device in the BDSSCB gate driver application a low voltage zener diode can be placed across the anode to gate connections as shown in without incurring significant power dissipation in either the zener diode or the series gate resistor. The BJT implementation can support more negative BDSSCB drive voltages while offering a greater selection of components.

The series common source configuration of JFETs for the Bidirectional Solid State Circuit Breaker BDSSCB implementation necessitates that a JFET or set of parallel JFETs reverse conduct during BDSSCB conduction in either direction. shows a schematic of JFETs in a common source configuration with additional parallel sets of common source connected JFETs indicated by dotted outlines. For simplicity a bidirectional solid state circuit breaker BDSSCB structure having only two JFETs connected in a common source configuration is discussed through the following sections. However similar effects are applicable to a plurality of common source connected JFETs with those entities connected in parallel. Reverse conduction occurs when positive current is passed through the JFET from source to drain. For a reverse conducting JFET a negative Vis established. If a positive gate to source bias is applied to the reverse conducting JFET this voltage will add with the source to drain conduction drop to increase the gate to drain bias V V V . If the Vbias exceeds the gate to drain junction built in potential of approximately 2.7 V a bipolar gate current will form as a result of forward conduction of the parasitic diode that exists at that junction. This effect is shown schematically using example voltages in . The bipolar gate current can be continuous and is fed by a portion of drain to source current that flows through a path formed by the gate driver circuit and gate to drain junction of the reverse conducting JFET. The bipolar gate current path is also illustrated in . Bipolar gate current is generally undesirable for both gate driver and device operation.

Reducing or eliminating the positive gate to source bias applied to the reverse conducting JFET can increase its source to drain current for which no bipolar gate current exists. This occurs because a reduction in Vallows a larger V resulting in a Vless than 2.7 V. However for JFETs designed to have a significant reduction in conduction loss by the application of a positive Vbias a reduced Vbias will lead to higher on state voltage drops for a given device current. Instead JFETs having a more normally on or very normally on VNON characteristic show less on state resistance reduction from positive gate bias and can be implemented in this bidirectional solid state circuit breaker BDSSCB application. Using a zero volt gate bias reverse conducting VNON JFETs can be operated over a wider drain current range without the formation of bipolar gate current. The zero volt gate bias also reduces the complexity of gate driver circuitry. However the negative Vbias required for voltage blocking up to 1200 V may be lower for VNON JFETs than that for other JFETs.

Bidirectional Solid State Circuit Breaker BDSSCB applications have various electrical and thermal operating conditions. At higher device temperatures JFET on state resistance increases causing a higher conduction voltage drop and higher device power dissipation. Under such operating conditions JFET current ratings are reduced and bipolar gate current forms at lower reverse conduction currents. Also any currents including short duration pulses in excess of the rated JFET reverse current can cause undesired bipolar gate current. Because the Vvalues that cause bipolar gate current can be slightly greater than or equal to the maximum Vvalues of device power dissipation limits the presence of bipolar gate current can be used to determine if the BDSSCB should be transitioned to the off state. A gate driver circuit was designed and built to sense bipolar gate current in reverse conducting VNON JFETs and to provide proper gate control to transition the JFETs to the off state. The driver circuit maintains latches the JFETs in the off state after bipolar gate current is detected to avoid a possible oscillatory condition or a possible drain current regulation condition caused by operation in the linear region rather than operation in the saturation or cutoff regions. The driver also provides two isolated input control lines for external independent or synchronized JFET gate control. These lines can be used for manual control or for actuation from the output of other sensors or devices.

Two auxiliary optically isolated control channels allow external gate driver actuation. The open collector BJT output of an optocoupler U U is connected in parallel with each UJT with the BJT collector and emitter connected to the UJT anode and cathode respectively. The optocouplers can be turned on individually to select the order in which the JFETs are turned off or the optocouplers can be turned on simultaneously to provide synchronized JFET turn off transitions. External actuation can be achieved by either holding one or both optocouplers in the on state or by momentarily turning on one or both optocouplers. In either the bipolar gate current actuated or externally actuated modes of JFET turn off the gate driver output maintains latches the JFET off state bias until the voltage of the gate bias supply is brought to zero or nearly zero volts. If still in the on state the optocouplers can be turned off and the gate bias supply voltage can be restored to resume conduction through the BDSSCB.

A gate driver configuration was designed in accordance with the principles of the present invention built and successfully evaluated to enable an inherent hardware over current protection feature for high speed scalable bidirectional solid state circuit breakers BDSSCBs . The gate driver configuration was also evaluated under manual actuation using the input control lines for external synchronized JFET gate control. The gate driver configuration of was built and tested with two 1200 V rated 0.1 cmVNON SiC VJFETs connected in the common source configuration. An isolated DC DC converter with adjustable output voltage regulation was built to provide JFET gate bias voltages of 33 V resulting in JFET drain to source blocking voltages of 1200 V. shows the schematic of the BDSSCB test circuit. An isolated DC power supply was used as a source and a resistive load of 53.6 ohms was connected in series with the JFETs. A bidirectional snubber was connected in parallel with the BDSSCB at the two JFET drain terminals. The section labeled DUT device under test represents the BDSSCB which incorporates the bidirectional snubber. The setup allowed the connections of the DC power supply to be easily interchanged for bidirectional testing. The gate driver was demonstrated with two 1200 V 10 A rated 0.1 cmVNON SiC VJFETs in the BDSSCB test circuit and performed well in both external and bipolar gate current actuated modes.

Synchronized actuation of both optocoupler control channels of the gate driver was tested first. Each test was begun by increasing the test circuit power supply voltage until the desired JFET drain current was measured. Both optocoupler inputs were then driven in parallel by a manually triggered function generator with a pulse having an amplitude of 5 V and a duration of 5 s. BDSSCB currents from 2 A to 10 A in 1 A increments were tested. In each test the JFET turn off delay the time between the start of the optocoupler input pulse and the start of JFET turn off was consistently 2.7 s. No delay was observed between the JFETs at turn off. shows the waveforms acquired from the 10 A test with current flow from D to D referring to those labels in . Channels through correspond to the following waveforms channel synchronized optocoupler input signal active high channel JFET I 10 A div channel JFET V 500 V div channel JFET V 50 V div. shows the waveforms acquired from the 10 A test with current flow from D to D referring to those labels in . Channels through correspond to the following waveforms channel synchronized optocoupler input signal active high channel JFET I 10 A div channel JFET V 50 V div channel JFET V 500 V div. In all tests of this operating mode the gate driver performed as expected. Although individual JFET turn off transitions occur on the nanosecond time scale the parallel bidirectional snubber slowed the total BDSSCB transition time to approximately 20 s.

Next the gate driver was tested for bidirectional actuation based on the formation of bipolar gate current in the reverse conducting JFET. From JFET thermal characterization data fluid circulated through the JFET baseplate was heated to 80 C. to increase JFET conduction voltage drops resulting in bipolar gate current formation for currents near 10 A. The supply current of the test circuit was increased until a BDSSCB turn off transition was observed at 11.5 A. With the drain connections of the BDSSCB reversed the test was repeated with BDSSCB current in the opposite direction and a BDSSCB turn off transition was observed at 11 A. The small difference in SSCB currents for driver actuation was not unexpected and can be attributed to differences in device parameters. show waveforms acquired during the bipolar gate current actuated gate driver tests for BDSSCB current in both directions. In BDSSCB current flow was initially from D to D referring to those labels in . Channels through correspond to the following waveforms channel no optocoupler input signal channel JFET I 10 A div channel JFET V 50 V div channel JFET V 500 V div. In BDSSCB current flow was initially from D to D referring to those labels in . Channels through correspond to the following waveforms channel no optocoupler input signal channel JFET I 10 A div channel JFET V 500 V div channel JFET V 50 V div. For current in either direction a 2 microsecond delay was observed between the turn off of the forward conducting JFET JFET with current flow into its drain and the reverse conducting JFET JFET with current flow into its source . This result is based in part on the resistor R R and capacitor C C values selected during gate driver fabrication. The performance results of the hardware implementation confirm the functionality of the bipolar gate current actuated JFET driver.

In many power switching applications normally off devices are preferred over normally on devices for their ability to block voltage in the absence of control power. However in many applications a normally on fault protection device may be preferred. This can be based on the percentage of system operating time that the protection device spends in the on state and on the system reliability impact of damage to the fault protection sub system or its malfunction. With the normal bidirectional solid state circuit breaker BDSSCB state being the on state system reliability is increased by not needing to provide an active bias to maintain rated conduction. A voltage controlled majority carrier device having a positive temperature coefficient of on state resistance is preferred. These features simplify device control and promote balanced currents among parallel devices facilitating current scalable bidirectional solid state circuit breakers BDSSCBs . Junction field effect transistors JFETs meet these criteria and can provide additional advantages over metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFETs . Without gate oxides JFETs can operate at higher temperatures than MOSFETs and can be more tolerant of high transient voltages as described further in S. Krishnaswami et al. Gate oxide reliability of 4H SiC MOS devices in Intl. Reliability Physics Symp. 2005 pp. 592 593 and D. Stephani and P. Friedrichs Silicon carbide junction field effect transistors Int. J. of High Speed Electronics and Syst. vol. 16 no. 3 pp. 825 854 September 2006 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference. Also the low JFET gate charge results in fast transition speed and can aid in device current sharing during switching transitions.

Silicon carbide SiC 1200 V 10 A normally on vertical JFETs were developed for a BDSSCB evaluation. Unlike other normally on SiC JFET devices that are designed for maximum conduction with a positive gate bias the BDSSCB JFETs were designed to have a more normally on characteristic for rated conduction at zero gate bias as described further in V. Veliadis et al. Exploring the design space of rugged seven lithographic level silicon carbide vertical JFETs for the development of 1200 V 50 A devices in 2007 Int. Semiconductor Device Research Symp. 2007 pp. 1 2 hereby incorporated by reference. Additionally the JFETs exhibit extremely low leakage currents and sharp onsets of breakdown at both the drain to gate and source to gate junctions resulting in stable and efficient operation as described further in V. Veliadis et al. A 2055 V at 0.7 mA cm2 24 A at 706 W cm2 normally ON 4H SiC JFET with 0.068 cm2 active area and blocking voltage capability of 94 of the SiC material limit IEEE Electron Device Lett. vol. 29 no. 12 pp. 1325 1327 December 2008 and V. Veliadis et al. A 1680 V at 1 mA cm2 54 A at 780 W cm2 normally ON 4H SiC JFET with 0.143 cm2 active area IEEE Electron Device Lett. vol. 29 no. 10 pp. 1132 1134 October 2008 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

A preferred embodiment comprises a scalable bidirectional solid state circuit breaker BDSSCB for fast fault protection in power electronic systems having bidirectional current flow. The BDSSCBs exhibit near symmetric bidirectional current conduction and voltage blocking capability using silicon carbide SiC junction field effect transistors JFETs and are controlled by an efficient self triggering gate driver. In addition to AC systems DC power electronic systems such as those of hybrid electric vehicle drives stand to benefit from this technology. BDSSCBs provide important advantages over their conventional mechanical counterparts

BDSSCBs can provide fault protection with dramatic improvements in reliability and operating life resulting in superior system protection and reduced maintenance and actuation that is faster than mechanical fault protection devices. Many AC and bidirectional DC systems especially those having power electronic components stand to benefit significantly from these advantages. SiC normally on JFETs are well suited to the BDSSCB application due to their normally on state ability to bidirectionally conduct with low resistance relative to other semiconductor device structures in both the forward and reverse direction positive temperature coefficient and high operating temperature capability.

SiC 0.1 cmJFETs may be utilized to have a more normally on characteristic specifically for a common source BDSSCB design which allows higher bidirectional conduction currents at a zero volt JFET gate bias and enables bipolar gate current to be used as a means of detecting JFET over current conditions while inherently compensating for device temperature. A novel BDSSCB gate driver was designed for bipolar gate current actuated or externally actuated turn off. The BCAD driver was evaluated successfully on a small scale 10 A BDSSCB with current flow in both directions having two common source connected 0.1 cmSiC JFETs.

The Bidirectional Solid State Circuit Breaker JFET module applications for the present invention include for example distributed and off grid power systems and hybrid electric ground vehicle power systems power electronic converters and power distribution equipment operating at up to several hundred volts and up to hundreds of kilowatts. To prevent damage to converters or other system components during fault conditions fault current interrupt speeds in tens to hundreds of microseconds can be necessary. In many of these systems AC and DC power components operate between two voltage busses having independent sourcing capability and require bidirectional fault isolation. Such conditions can require fault protection systems having symmetric ratings for bidirectional voltage blocking in the off state and bidirectional current conduction in the on state. Mechanical contactors do not provide adequate actuation speeds in many applications and suffer severe degradation during repeated fault isolation. A BDSSCB as described in the foregoing overcomes these deficiencies. A preferred embodiment may comprise a set of normally on junction field effect transistors JFETs fabricated from wide band gap semiconductor material having a collectively low conduction loss to provide large current handling capability and fast transition speed for current interruption. Advanced gate drivers are being developed for SiC vertical JFET VJFET devices. A preferred embodiment may be used in conjunction with JFETs that have voltage blocking ratings at or above 1200 V and low drain to source resistances for scalable BD SS CB applications.

A preferred embodiment comprises a scalable bidirectional solid state circuit breaker BDSSCB capable of fast fault protection in power electronic systems having bidirectional current flow. A preferred embodiment exhibits symmetric bidirectional current conduction and voltage blocking capability using novel Silicon Carbide SiC junction field effect transistors JFETs controlled by an efficient self triggering gate driver. Bidirectional solid state circuit breakers BDSSCBs provide important advantages over their conventional mechanical counterparts. Even coupled with transient voltage suppression components preferred embodiment bidirectional BDSSCBs may achieve actuation times three orders of magnitude lower. BDSSCBs may also offer dramatic improvements in reliability and operating life resulting in superior system protection and reduced maintenance.

As used herein the terminology latch includes the elements disclosed in such as a UJT which is normally off open but is turned on closed when activated and remains in the on state until reset.

As used herein the terminology switch includes a transistor such as a MOSFET but is not limited to a MOSFET and may be a switch element.

As used herein the terminology resettable fuse or fuse refers to a self triggered or internally triggered device that opens when triggered and includes a transient blocking unit and the terminology open or activated refers to when the fuse is blown or when current is blocked.

As used herein the terminology predetermined threshold correlates to an overflow or overload situation in which the circuit breaker is designed to open when a bipolar gate current flows through the common source connection enters the gate driver and passes through the gate drain junction of the reverse conducting JFET.

As used herein the terminology JFETs is the plural of JFET which means junction field effect transistor.

As used herein bipolar gate current as referred to herein shall be the current flowing through the gate to drain junction of a reverse conducting JFET with that current flowing into the gate connection and flowing out of the drain connection of the JFET.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments are intended to reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

