---

title: Map handling for location based services in conjunction with localized environments
abstract: The subject matter disclosed herein relates to systems, methods, apparatuses, devices, articles, and means for map handling for location based services in conjunction with localized environments. For certain example implementations, a method may comprise storing map information corresponding to a particular localized environment that is associated with a particular location context identifier, with the particular localized environment comprising an indoor environment corresponding to at least a portion of a building structure; receiving update information applicable to the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment, with the update information being associated with the particular location context identifier; updating the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment based at least partly on the update information so as to produce updated map information; and providing the updated map information to one or more mobile devices that are located at the particular localized environment. Other example implementations are described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09389085&OS=09389085&RS=09389085
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09389085
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110120
---
This application claims priority under 35 USC 119 to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 297 524 filed 22 Jan. 2010 and entitled MAP ACQUISITION AND PROCESSING FOR LOCATION BASED SERVICES which is assigned to the assignee hereof and which is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates to map handling for location based services in conjunction with localized environments.

Humankind has always struggled to journey from point A to point B . In ancient times individuals in unfamiliar territory wandered around without guidance or perhaps they risked asking local inhabitants for directions. People eventually developed maps to provide written guidance for reaching a desired destination. As literacy and the availability of paper became more common more people gained the ability to use maps during their travels.

Written maps began to be available in electronic form during the 20century. With the advent of the Internet people could electronically access maps of many places from all over the globe. Web mapping services could also provide directions from point A to point B . These directions from web based mapping services were relatively static. With the invention of satellite positioning system SPS technology and ever smaller electronic devices however so called turn by turn directions could be provided dynamically as travelers journeyed toward their destination.

These electronic maps and web based mapping services focus on providing directions in the outdoors such as from one postal address to another postal address. Similarly such turn by turn directions have traditionally been limited to roadways. With general outdoor environments such as those that include roadways a map and or roadway layout may be generated from an image acquired by a satellite for use with mapping and directional services. Unfortunately an ability to provide analogous mapping and directional services in specific and or localized environments is currently lacking.

For certain example implementations a method may comprise storing map information corresponding to a particular localized environment that is associated with a particular location context identifier with the particular localized environment comprising an indoor environment corresponding to at least a portion of a building structure and receiving update information applicable to the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment with the update information being associated with the particular location context identifier. The method may further comprise updating the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment based at least partly on the update information so as to produce updated map information and providing the updated map information to one or more mobile devices that are located at the particular localized environment. For certain example implementations an apparatus may comprise at least one memory to store instructions and one or more processors to execute the instructions and cause the apparatus to store map information corresponding to a particular localized environment that is associated with a particular location context identifier with the particular localized environment comprising an indoor environment corresponding to at least a portion of a building structure. The apparatus may also be caused to receive update information applicable to the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment with the update information being associated with the particular location context identifier. The apparatus may further be caused to update the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment based at least partly on the update information so as to produce updated map information and to provide the updated map information to one or more mobile devices that are located at the particular localized environment. For certain example implementations a system may comprise means for storing map information corresponding to a particular localized environment that is associated with a particular location context identifier with the particular localized environment comprising an indoor environment corresponding to at least a portion of a building structure and means for receiving update information applicable to the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment with the update information being associated with the particular location context identifier. The system may further comprise means for updating the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment based at least partly on the update information so as to produce updated map information and means for providing the updated map information to one or more mobile devices that are located at the particular localized environment. For certain example implementations an article may comprise at least one storage medium having stored thereon instructions executable by one or more processors to store map information corresponding to a particular localized environment that is associated with a particular location context identifier with the particular localized environment comprising an indoor environment corresponding to at least a portion of a building structure and to receive update information applicable to the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment with the update information being associated with the particular location context identifier. The instructions may further be executable by the one or more processors to update the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment based at least partly on the update information so as to produce updated map information and to provide the updated map information to one or more mobile devices that are located at the particular localized environment. It should be appreciated however that these are merely example implementations and that other implementations are described herein and may be implemented without deviating from claimed subject matter.

For certain example implementations a method for a mobile device may comprise detecting at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information with the map information corresponding to a localized environment at which the mobile device is located and transmitting data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicts with the map information. For certain example implementations a mobile device may comprise at least one memory to store instructions and one or more processors to execute the instructions and cause the mobile device to detect at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information with the map information corresponding to a localized environment at which the mobile device is located and transmit data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicts with the map information. For certain example implementations a system may comprise means for detecting at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information with the map information corresponding to a localized environment at which the system is located and means for transmitting data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicts with the map information. For certain example implementations an article may comprise at least one storage medium having stored thereon instructions executable by one or more processors to detect at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information with the map information corresponding to a localized environment at which a mobile device is located and transmit data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicts with the map information. It should be appreciated however that these are merely example implementations and that other implementations are described herein and may be implemented without deviating from claimed subject matter.

Reference throughout this Specification to a feature one feature an example one example and so forth means that a particular feature structure characteristic etc. described in connection with the feature and or example may be relevant to at least one feature and or example of claimed subject matter. Thus the appearances of a phrase such as in one example an example in one feature a feature in an example implementation for certain example implementations and so forth in various places throughout this Specification are not necessarily all referring to the same feature example and or example implementation. Furthermore the particular features examples structures characteristics etc. may be combined in one or more example implementations example systems and so forth.

As indicated above electronic maps and web based mapping services are not usually offered for specific localized environments. Similarly turn by turn directions are not typically provided for specific localized environments. Specific localized environments may include by way of example but not limitation indoor spaces such as building structures private land areas such as apartment complexes and so forth. Many indoor spaces are sufficiently large complex and or otherwise difficult to navigate such that navigational information may be beneficial e.g. to a user of a mobile device. Hence a user may want navigational information or another location based service LBS to be provided via a mobile device in an indoor or other localized environment. Unfortunately in contrast with large scale outdoor areas in which location information may be available from e.g. satellite imagery and or SPS technologies indoor mapping and or position information is generally not available. Satellites cannot merely take a picture of interior features of a structure and SPS signals may be too attenuated for use within a structure. Moreover to fully provide a range of location based services localized position level metadata and service level metadata may be employed.

Using relatively high precision location information applications for a mobile device may provide a user with many different services such as for example positioning personal vehicle pedestrian navigation real time turn by turn directions location based searching just to name a few examples. In such situations relatively high precision location information e.g. that obtained from SPS infrastructure and or the like may be processed according to a global coordinate system e.g. latitude and longitude or other earth centered xyz coordinates . Although such use of location information referenced to a global coordinate system may be useful in providing some services e.g. outdoor vehicle navigation such location information referenced to a global coordinate system may be impractical for other types of services such as indoor pedestrian navigation. For example even if a local map is itself known it may still be unknown how such a local map fits in relation to the earth in a global coordinate system.

Accordingly one or more local coordinate systems may be established for particular services such as indoor pedestrian navigation searching of local points of interest that are not directly mapped or referenced to a global coordinate system and so forth just to name a couple of examples. A server may store and associate location context identifiers LCIs with specific location contexts. Such a location context may include locally defined areas or other environments such as for example particular floors of buildings or other indoor areas that are not mapped according to a global coordinate system. Location context identifiers may be used as handles for requesting additional information associated with e.g. laid over such a location context. Additional information may include by way of example but not limitation routes or paths over an indoor map points of interest that are local or unique to certain location contexts and so forth just to name a couple of examples. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular coordinate system or systems. Moreover a given localized environment and or local context may be associated with at least a portion of at least one local coordinate system at least a portion of at least one global coordinate system at least a portion of at least one local coordinate system that may be translated into one or more other local coordinate systems and or global coordinate systems any combination thereof and so forth just to name a few examples.

Thus a mobile device that moves into a localized environment may contact a server to obtain one or more location context identifiers that are associated with the localized environment. To obtain a location context identifier that is associated with or relevant to a given localized environment the mobile device may first receive information from local transmitters that is are associated with and or representative of the given localized environment. For example a mobile device may obtain medium access control MAC identifiers MAC IDs from signals transmitted from one or more Wi Fi access points and or received signal strength indications RSSIs related to same. As another example a mobile device may obtain a femtocell identifier or an identifier associated with any wireless access device generally. Alternatively a mobile device may receive signals transmitted from an SPS and or information from an application programming interface API capable of providing location information for example. A mobile device may transmit information related to a current localized environment to a server to request a location context identifier. In response a server may use such received information to determine a location context e.g. corresponding to a floor of a building or other indoor space . The server may further respond to the request by providing one or more location context identifiers associated with the determined location context. Upon obtaining at least one location context identifier a mobile device may use the location context identifier as a handle to request map information such as location based data from one or more servers.

Location based data may be overlaid on a map of a localized environment. A mobile device may also use a location context identifier to obtain a map of a localized environment. Additionally and or alternatively a mobile device may use a location context identifier to obtain information to be used in a particular application connected to a particular corresponding location context. For example a mobile device may obtain information relating to a particular location context for use in an indoor pedestrian navigation application. Such an application may provide for example a display of corridors rooms hallways doors entry ways restrooms and or other points of interest. For a particular application such information may define a routing topology set out in a coordinate system that is local to a particular location context as distinguishable from a global coordinate system. A mobile device may also use one or more location context identifiers to obtain point of interest information. Unfortunately such map information may be initially incorrect may become stale or may otherwise be inaccurate and or incomplete.

Map information may be created for example based on an initial map of a localized environment such as from a computer aided design CAD file or image schematic of a given localized environment just to name a couple of examples. Initial map information may be augmented with point of interest information and other types of location based data. In operation map information may be disseminated in whole and or in part s to mobile devices present at a given localized environment. As noted herein above an initial map and or initial location based data may be incorrect. Over time map information may become stale as a corresponding localized environment undergoes changes. Furthermore certain aspects and or portions of a localized environment may be omitted from corresponding map information. Consequently map information for these and other reasons may be inaccurate incomplete or otherwise amenable to updating.

Accordingly in certain example implementations map information may be updated. Updates may be precipitated by an entity affiliated with a given localized environment. Such updates may include modifications to existing map information and or replacements of existing map information. Affiliated entities may further be polled to check for updates. Updates may also or alternatively be precipitated by data obtained via one or more mobile devices. For example users of mobile devices may manually send suggested changes to point of interest information. Positioning and or movement patterns may also inform updates. For instance a room that is reflected as being infeasible by map information may be changed if mobile devices are consistently located within such a room. Also if mobile devices are repeatedly moving through what is indicated to be a building obstacle such as a wall the presence of the building obstacle may be reevaluated and possibly removed. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any of these particular example implementations. Moreover additional example update implementation scenarios are described further herein below.

For certain example implementations a mobile device may obtain map information from at least one map server . Upon receipt of map information mobile device may store map information in one or more memories for use in providing at least one location based service e.g. to a user of mobile device . Examples of mobile devices may include but are not limited to a mobile station a mobile phone a netbook a laptop a tablet computer a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA a personal navigation device PND an entertainment appliance some combination thereof and so forth just to name a few examples. Furthermore a mobile device may comprise any mobile device with wireless capabilities. Additional mobile device examples are described herein below with particular reference to . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular type size category capability level etc. of mobile device.

In example implementations map information may comprise any information relating to a map of a localized environment. By way of example but not limitation map information may include one or more of any of the following a connectivity graph for a map a routing graph for a map annotation information for a map points of interest for a localized environment navigational instructions at least one layer of mapping information some combination thereof and so forth. Additional description and examples of map information are described herein below. In example implementations localized environment may comprise indoor environments such as office buildings and malls or defined outdoor environments such as apartment complexes and business parks. Additional description and examples of localized environments are described herein below particularly with reference to .

In example implementations a wireless access device may comprise a Wi Fi and or WLAN access point AP a femtocell nodal device a WiMAX nodal device a Bluetooth or other similarly short ranged wireless node and so forth just to name a few examples. Wireless access devices may transmit signals including wireless access device identifiers. A mobile device may be within wireless communication range of one or more wireless access devices and thus in wireless communication with one or more wireless access devices which may be located at a single localized environment or at multiple localized environments . During such wireless communication s mobile device may receive from one or more wireless access devices one or more wireless access device identifiers that are associated with the one or more wireless access devices . For a Wi Fi access point implementation of a wireless access device by way of example but not limitation a wireless access device identifier may comprise an access point medium access control identifier MAC ID . Such a wireless access device may further interact with a mobile device so as to provide other measurements and or other detected information such as round trip time RTT measurements received signal strength indicator indication RSSI measurements and so forth just to name a couple of examples.

As depicted in schematic block diagram map server is located external to localized environment . However map server may alternatively be located fully or partially internal to localized environment without departing from claimed subject matter. Similarly although wireless access device is shown as being located internal to localized environment it may alternatively be located fully or partially external to localized environment without departing from claimed subject matter. Although only one map server and wireless access device is shown in schematic block diagram more than one of either or both may alternatively be involved in a given implementation without departing from claimed subject matter. Also although no particular mode of communication between mobile device and map server is connoted by the interconnecting arrow depicted in schematic block diagram it should be noted that communications between them may be made at least partly wirelessly. By way of example but not limitation a communication between mobile device and map server may be carried wirelessly part of the way e.g. between mobile device and a wireless access device a cellular base station etc. and by wireline part of the way e.g. over one or more wired networks such as an intranet or the Internet .

Examples of location based services may include but are not limited to providing navigational information. For instance point of interest information a connectivity graph a routing graph turn by turn directional instructions static directions from one location to another location etc. may be provided. Other examples of location based services may include but are not limited to routing positioning position filtering navigation incentives applications e.g. offers based on location location based search combinations thereof and so forth. Navigational information or other information related to a location based service LBS may be provided by presenting it to a user e.g. visually haptically and or aurally via a mobile device by transmitting it to a mobile device some combination thereof and so forth just to enumerate a few examples. Additional examples of location based services as well as example aspects thereof are described herein below including with reference to .

For certain example embodiments a map server may interact with a mobile device and or an affiliated entity server . An affiliated entity server may comprise at least one server that is associated with an entity that is affiliated with a given localized environment e.g. of . Such affiliated entities may include by way of example but not limitation an owner of a localized environment a property manager of a localized environment an operational manager of a localized environment an architectural firm that designed a localized environment an engineering firm that is working with a localized environment an interior design firm working with a localized environment a construction company working on a localized environment a current occupant of a localized environment a company that is e.g. contracted to be responsible for keeping map information current designated representatives of any of the above combinations thereof and so forth.

In certain example embodiments interactions between and or among a mobile device at least one map server and an affiliated entity server may relate to creating maps disseminating maps updating maps combinations thereof and so forth just to name a few examples. A given map server may comprise or otherwise be capable of functioning as one or more of a map creation server a map dissemination server or a map updating server . Implementations that may utilize such servers are described herein below including with reference to . Communications e.g. transmissions and or receptions between and or among one or more mobile devices one or more map servers and or at least one affiliated entity server may be implemented over one or more networks. Examples of such network s may include but are not limited to one or more of a wireless network a wired network an internet including the Internet a telecommunications network an ad hoc network a local area network LAN an Ethernet a wide area network WAN a WiMAX network a Wi Fi network a Bluetooth network a public network a private network a computer network a cellular network any combination thereof and so forth.

Such network or networks may operate in accordance with any one or more of many different systems standards protocols etc. just to name a few examples. For example for an implementation including at least one wireless communication network such wireless communication network s may comprise one or more of a wireless wide area network WWAN a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN any combination thereof and so on. A WWAN may be a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA network a Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA network an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA network a Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA network any combination thereof and so on. A CDMA network may implement one or more radio access technologies RATs such as cdma2000 Wideband CDMA W CDMA Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA any combination thereof etc. just to name a few radio technology examples. Here cdma2000 may include technologies implemented according to IS 95 standards IS 2000 standards IS 856 standards any combination thereof and so forth. A TDMA network may implement Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS or some other RAT or RATs. GSM and W CDMA examples are described in documents from a consortium named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Cdma2000 examples are described in documents from a consortium named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . 3GPP and 3GPP2 documents are publicly available. A WLAN may include an IEEE 802.11x network and a WPAN may include a Bluetooth network and or an IEEE 802.15x network just to name a few examples. Wireless communication networks may include so called next generation technologies e.g. 4G such as for example Long Term Evolution LTE Advanced LTE WiMAX Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB any combination thereof and or the like.

A map creation server a map dissemination server and or a map updating server may be realized on separate hardware that is located at a single facility or that is geographically distributed. Alternatively a map creation server a map dissemination server and or a map updating server may be co located on a single piece of hardware. Furthermore a map creation server a map dissemination server and or a map updating server may be realized as a single logical server e.g. a map server having multiple functionalities . Generally a server and or a server device may include any one or more parts operating together to provide some service such as a bank of servers a server farm multiple processors and memory elements communicating over some local and or distributed interconnect and so forth just to name a few examples. Such device s realizing a map creation server a map dissemination server and or a map updating server may comprise at least one node of a telecommunications network at least one server on an internet e.g. the Internet some combination thereof and so forth just to name a couple of examples. A device may comprise one or more servers and an apparatus may comprise one or more devices.

For certain example implementations a mobile device and or an affiliated entity server may interact with a map server e.g. of such as by interacting with a map creation server a map dissemination server and or a map updating server . A map creation server may create a map and or map information . A map dissemination server may disseminate map information to one or more mobile devices . A map updating server may update map information . For purposes of map updating map updating server may interact with an affiliated entity server and or a mobile device . Example scenarios and implementations for updating are described further herein.

Example operative aspects pertaining to schematic diagram are described below in terms of operational phases . At operational phase localized environment information may be received such as from affiliated entity server . Localized environment information may be constituted in any digital form such as auto CAD polygon designated and so forth just to name a couple of examples. At operational phase map creation server may convert localized environment information from a generalized form into an intermediate editable form e.g. an extensible markup language XML form which is shown as map . Such an intermediate form as map may contain basic features of a map of a corresponding localized environment. Such basic features may include but are not limited to walls doors columns and any available contextual information explicitly present in an original map. Such features may be used e.g. at operational phase for additional analysis and information inference and or extraction.

At operational phase localized environment information may be used to extract and infer further information about map . This may include but is not limited to inferring locations of hallways and rooms as well as their boundaries ascertaining feasible and infeasible areas of a map determining entrances and exits of rooms and buildings or points of entry exit and so forth just to name a few examples. Additional example description pertaining at least to operational phases and is provided herein below with particular reference to .

At operational phase because building features may not be constant and because data for a given map of localized environment information may change over time a system may implement a mechanism to allow for periodic occasional irregular or other updates to map information . With an update a map may be reprocessed however such reprocessing may comprise recreating map information merging previous map information with new data recreating map information and merging subsequently discovered data therewith and so forth just to name a few examples. Thus map creation may be re performed as at operational phases and or . Alternatively a system may elect to merge previous map features and inferred information from a previous map with new information e.g. new data features newly inferred information etc. .

Updating of map information may be at least partially performed for example by a map updating server . In an example implementation a full recreation may be forwarded from map updating server to map creation server for at least partial performance by map creation server . A merging may be performed by map updating server . Map updating may be performed for example responsive to communication s with one or more mobile devices and or at least one affiliated entity server . For instance map updating may be based at least partly on crowd sourced information e.g. one or more users indicate a room is a family restroom instead of a coffee shop may be based at least partly on inferred information e.g. an area ascertained to be infeasible may actually have many users frequently positioned within it or may be based at least partly on other information received from mobile device s . As another example a system may enable an affiliated entity server to update map information by proactively sending a portion of or a full set of new localized environment information by polling an affiliated entity server to check for changes to localized environment information combinations thereof and so forth just to name a couple of examples. For instance if a room assignment for an individual changes localized environment information may be updated by an affiliated entity server . An example location based system for localized environments e.g. a map updating server thereof may detect such a change and update map information by reprocessing it. Additional example implementations for map updating are described herein below with particular reference to .

At operational phase once an analysis or processing is complete information may be bundled into a map interchange format such as any open or other publicly accessible format for a map. By way of example but not limitation map information may be formatted to comport with one or more map interchange formats and provided to map dissemination server . Such a map interchange format may be of any form and or comport with any standard. Depending on later usage criteria it may be that multiple map formats are generated as a result of an analysis process. In addition more than one formatted file may be created for a single map. For example maps may be partitioned into logical pieces or layers. Different layers may include any one or more of the following at least one wall layer at least one door layer one or more points of interest layers and so forth just to name a few examples. A result of an analysis process may generate by way of example but not limitation a base layer a door layer and a point of interest layer in XML JavaScript Object Notation JSON scalable vector graphics SVG and or other interchange formats for a single map. Example aspects for an interaction between a map dissemination server and a mobile device are described herein below with particular reference to .

Map information which may include a connectivity and or routing graph with linked or otherwise associated annotation information may be used to derive and or provide navigational information. Navigational information may include by way of example but not limitation positioning information directional information turn by turn directions and so forth. Such navigational information may facilitate travel from a point A to a point B . By way of example but not limitation a routing graph with associated annotation information may be descriptive of feasible areas of a given map and indicate how traversal is possible from one position to another position. Such a routing graph and or associated annotation information may comprise an example of routability information. For any given building or other localized environment a routing graph may comprise a set of nodes and edges that depict feasible areas and traversable paths from one point in a building to another point. A traversable path may comprise by way of example but not limitation a path between any two points that is not blocked by a wall or other building obstacle.

As shown in example schematic diagram an example routing graph has been created that may include linkages to annotation information from building information that is descriptive of at least a portion of a building structure or more generally from localized environment information that is descriptive of at least a portion of a localized environment area . Such building information may comprise data that is in any format. Building information may comprise a computer aided design CAD file a drawing interchange format DXF file an image file some combination thereof and so forth just to name a few examples.

As illustrated schematic diagram may include external internal doors exterior interior walls at least one infeasible area a building exterior area a routing graph and annotation information . Using routing graph a navigational application and or system may provide directional instructions for an individual to travel for instance from point A to point B . Although all such illustrated features are not explicitly denoted with reference numerals in for the sake of visual clarity a legend indicates which building and navigational features are connoted by which particular drawing features. Also although schematic diagram generally and routing graph specifically may include certain example components as illustrated in and described herein below claimed subject matter is not so limited. Instead given implementations may include more fewer and or different components. For example building information may omit door indications. Also infeasible areas may not be identified. Furthermore additional annotation information and or additional types of such information may be linked to routing graph . Other alternatives and alternative components may be added incorporated omitted changed and so forth without deviating from claimed subject matter.

By way of example but not limitation routing graph may be indicative of a routing topology. Routing graph may be retrieved or received e.g. from memory from a remote location etc. and or created so as to correspond to a building structure of schematic diagram . In an example implementation a routing graph may be received as comprising at least part of map information e.g. of . To create a routing graph a grid of points may be applied to building information. The building information may be analyzed using such an applied grid of points. By way of example but not limitation possible locations on a map may be represented using a discrete set of grid points. This discreteness need not present a problem for an accuracy of an overall system because a granularity of an applied grid of points may be increased so as to exceed a desired level of precision.

As part of an example analysis of building information autonomous areas may be determined Autonomous areas may include rooms hallways a building exterior other zones and so forth just to name a few examples. At least one autonomous area may be ascertained to comprise a building exterior area . One or more other autonomous areas may be determined to comprise an infeasible area . For example an area without a door and or an area without annotation information may be determined to be infeasible. On the other hand autonomous areas that are reachable and or that are associated with annotation information may be determined to comprise feasible areas e.g. accessible rooms stores hallways etc. .

If doors are indicated in building information one or more external doors e.g. the larger door rectangles in representing exits and or entrances for a building structure may be determined if such door s connect to and provide access to building exterior area . One or more internal doors e.g. the smaller door rectangles in may be determined to provide access to other feasible areas such as internal rooms hallways and so forth.

Annotation information may be linked to a connectivity graph or routing graph to further enable navigational aid between and or among different areas e.g. rooms zones etc. and or to further enable another location based service. Annotation information may also provide information associated with a particular zone such a lobby an elevator bank a store a room occupant a dining location and so forth just to name a few examples. By way of example but not limitation annotation information may include room designations e.g. A 1.24 etc. room names e.g. Conference Room 1 etc. room purposes e.g. Bathroom Kitchen etc. room residents or occupants e.g. Amy Ray etc. exhibitors e.g. Acme AA Industrializing etc. of a booth store owners e.g. Rugs R Us Nicky s Nick Knacks etc. and so forth.

Routability information may comprise for example information that is capable of aiding and or facilitating a determination of a route. By way of example but not limitation routability information may include any one or more of the following a connectivity graph a routing graph annotation information e.g. that is linked to a routing graph general localized environment information indication s of feasible and infeasible areas indications of traversable paths any combination thereof and so forth just to name a few examples. A routing graph may be used to plot a path from one point to another point including from one annotated area or zone to another annotated area or zone. Map information may comprise routability information at least partially processed building or other localized environment information any portion or combination thereof and so forth just to name a few examples. By way of example but not limitation map information may comprise a map and a connectivity graph a map with points of interest e.g. from which a routing graph may be created a routing graph and associated annotation information e.g. from which a route to a point of interest may be determined some combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example implementations at phase mobile device may obtain one or more wireless access device identifiers not explicitly shown by receiving them from one or more wireless access devices e.g. of . At phase one or more obtained wireless access device identifiers may be transmitted from mobile device to map dissemination server . Map dissemination server may thus receive one or more wireless access device identifiers.

At phase map dissemination server may obtain at least one location context identifier LCI based at least partly on the received wireless access device identifier s . Location context identifier may correspond to a localized environment in which mobile device is currently located. A location context identifier may be a handle a label a word a numerical identifier an alphanumeric value or any other representation corresponding to at least one particular localized environment and or at least one set of map information . For example map dissemination server may access a database or other mapping data structure that associates wireless access device identifiers with localized environments in multiple association entries to retrieve a location context identifier that is associated with at least one received wireless access device identifier. Such a location context identifier may also be associated with map information e.g. also of for a corresponding localized environment in a same or different mapping data structure so that map information may be retrieved based at least partly on a location context identifier that has been submitted.

Generally a mapping data structure may include multiple association entries not explicitly shown . For example implementations each such entry may associate one or more wireless access device identifier with at least one location context identifier . Alternatively and or additionally each such entry may associate map information and or a localized environment with at least one location context identifier . However one or more mapping data structures may be implemented in alternative manners without departing from claimed subject matter.

At phase based at least partly on a location context identifier that has been retrieved one or more received wireless access device identifiers and or other information received from mobile device an estimated location of mobile device may be determined. One or more position enhancers may be applied to further refine such a location estimate. A position enhancer may be for example any information and or technique that may be utilized to narrow or focus a location estimate of a mobile device.

At phase at least one annotation layer may be obtained by map dissemination server using for example a retrieved or received location context identifier . For instance a point of interest layer may be obtained that corresponds to a localized environment in which mobile device is currently located. By way of example but not limitation map information may comprise at least a connectivity graph and indications of traversable paths for the localized environment as well as feasibility information that identifies feasible infeasible areas of the localized environment. In an example implementation a localized environment may comprise an indoor environment corresponding to at least a portion of a building structure within which the mobile device is located.

At phase map dissemination server may transmit a location context identifier that has been retrieved and or map information with or without one or more annotation layers. Mobile device may thus receive such a location context identifier and or such map information including any accompanying or otherwise associated annotation layers. Moreover mobile device may use a location context identifier to request any additional desired annotation layer s from map dissemination server . If not already combined by map dissemination server mobile device may combine map information with one or more received annotation layers e.g. into a map mashup to enhance map information .

At phase a user of mobile device may search annotation information to find e.g. a desired point of interest. A desired point of interest may be designated by a user as a destination. At phase a routing to a designated destination may be calculated and presented to a user. For example a routing may be presented graphically on a map as a static set of directions as real time turn by turn directions e.g. visually and or aurally some combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example implementations operations may be performed at least partially by one or more map servers e.g. a map creation server a map dissemination server and or a map updating server . At operation map information corresponding to a particular localized environment that is associated with a particular location context identifier may be stored with the particular localized environment comprising an indoor environment corresponding to at least a portion of a building structure. For example at least one map server may store map information corresponding to a particular localized environment that is associated with a particular location context identifier . Map information may further be stored in association with the particular location context identifier .

At operation update information that is applicable to the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment may be received with the update information associated with the particular location context identifier. For example update information that is applicable to map information corresponding to the particular localized environment may be received. The update information may be associated with the particular location context identifier and the update information may further be accompanied by the particular location context identifier .

Update information may comprise localized environment information that has been changed and changed localized environment information may comprise modified localized environment information e.g. of and or replacement localized environment information e.g. of . Such localized environment information that has been changed may be received from an affiliated entity server . Example implementations with regard to affiliated entity servers and changed localized environment information are described herein below with particular reference to . Alternatively update information may comprise data representative of at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information . Such conflicting incident data may be received from one or more mobile devices . Example implementations with regard to mobile devices and conflicting incident data are described herein below with particular reference to .

At operation the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment may be updated based at least partly on the update information so as to produce updated map information. For example map information corresponding to the particular localized environment may be updated by a map updating server and or by a map creation server based at least partly on the received update information so as to produce updated map information .

At operation the updated map information may be provided to one or more mobile devices that are located at the particular localized environment. For example the updated map information may be provided wirelessly from a map dissemination server to one or more mobile devices that are located at e.g. within proximate to within range of wireless access devices associated with etc. the particular localized environment . Updated map information may be provided to a given mobile device if map information is updated e.g. pushed to mobile devices currently navigating at a particular localized environment if a given mobile device next requests map information for a particular localized environment if a given mobile device submitted a conflicting incident report that precipitated a map information updating event some combination thereof and so forth just to provide a few examples.

For certain example implementations usage scenario may relate to localized environment information that has been changed. Examples of changed localized environment information include but are not limited to modified localized environment information replacement localized environment information a combination thereof and so forth. At phase affiliated entity server may transmit modified localized environment information to map updating server . Accordingly map updating server may receive modified localized environment information from affiliated entity server . Modified localized environment information may be communicated in association with location context identifier . Modified localized environment information may include at least a portion of localized environment information that has been modified as compared to a previous version of localized environment information . For example an affiliated entity server may send at least a portion of a map and or a portion of associated map annotation information. Modified portion s may be indicated as being for addition to a previous version of localized environment information and or as being for substitution of one or more portions of a previous version of localized environment information .

At phase upon receiving modified localized environment information map updating server may update map information to produce updated map information. For example map information corresponding to a particular localized environment may be modified based at least partly on modified localized environment information so as to produce updated map information . For instance modified localized environment information may be added to map information that corresponds to the particular localized environment so as to produce the updated map information. Alternatively modified localized environment information may be substituted for at least a portion of map information that corresponds to the particular localized environment so as to produce the updated map information.

For certain example implementations at phase affiliated entity server may transmit replacement localized environment information to map updating server . Accordingly map updating server may receive replacement localized environment information from affiliated entity server . Replacement localized environment information may be communicated in association with location context identifier . Replacement localized environment information may include up to a full set of localized environment information that may be used to create a new set of map information . For example an affiliated entity server may send a complete new map and or a complete set of associated map annotation information.

At phase upon receiving replacement localized environment information map updating server may update map information to produce updated map information. For example map information corresponding to a particular localized environment may be recreated based at least partly on replacement localized environment information so as to produce updated map information . Map updating server may include recreation logic functionality to enable recreation of map information from replacement localized environment information . Alternatively map updating server may coordinate and or cooperate with map creation server to recreate map information from replacement localized environment information

For example implementations of phases and affiliated entity server may push changed e.g. updated localized environment information when changes are made thereto. Alternatively map updating server may pull localized environment information that has been changed by polling affiliated entity server . At phase map updating server may contact an affiliated entity device such as at least one affiliated entity server to determine if localized environment information has changed. If localized environment information is determined to have changed map updating server may perform an updating operation by updating map information based at least partly on the changed localized environment information e.g. modified localized environment information and or replacement localized environment information .

A determination as to if localized environment information has changed may be performed using any of many possible approaches. For example map updating server may ask if localized environment information has changed and affiliated entity server may provide an answer in the affirmative or negative. Alternatively a version number and or date of most recently received localized environment information may be compared by map updating server to a current version number and or date of localized environment information that is currently possessed by affiliated entity server . As still another alternative each set of localized environment information may be associated with a data constituency indicator such as a checksum or hash code that is derivable from a given version of localized environment information. Map updating server may produce such a data constituency indicator for a previous version of localized environment information and a current version of localized environment information to determine whether localized environment information has changed between the previous and current versions.

For certain example implementations operations may be performed at least partially by a map server e.g. a map creation server a map dissemination server and or a map updating server . Also operation may be performed at least partially by an affiliated entity server . At operation map information corresponding to a particular localized environment may be stored in association with a particular location context identifier. For example a map creation server a map dissemination server and or a map updating server may store map information corresponding to a particular localized environment in association with a particular location context identifier e.g. in one or more mapping data structures .

At operation changed localized environment information that is associated with a particular location context identifier may be transmitted. For example an affiliated entity server may transmit to a map updating server localized environment information that has been changed e.g. modified localized environment information and or replacement localized environment information that is associated with a particular location context identifier .

At operation changed localized environment information that is associated with a particular location context identifier may be received. For example map updating server may receive changed localized environment information from affiliated entity server . At operation stored map information may be updated based at least partly on changed localized environment information and responsive to receiving the changed localized environment information. For example at least map updating server may update map information that has been previously stored based at least partly on the received changed localized environment information. Such an updating operation may be a modification operation and or a replacement operation with regard to stored map information as is described further herein below with particular reference to . A modification operation may include modifying existing map information by way of addition and or substitution to map information as is described further herein above with particular reference to .

At operation it may be determined whether changed localized environment information is for replacement or modification. By way of example only such a determination may be based on an explicit indication from an affiliated entity server . Alternatively such a determination may be based on a comparison between previous localized environment information and current localized environment information . For example map updating server may perform one or more comparisons between different portions and or layers of different versions of localized environment information . For instance map portions may be compared annotation information may be compared and so forth just to name a couple of examples. If a significant percentage of annotation information has changed it may be determined that an updating operation is for replacement while a modification operation may be implemented if less annotation information has changed. Additionally if map information such as location s of one or more walls or other building obstacles has changed it may be determined that an updating operation is for replacement especially if pedestrian traffic patterns are likely to be affected. Determining whether an update operation is for replacement or modification may be performed in alternative manners without departing from claimed subject matter.

At operation if it is determined at operation that changed localized environment information is for a modification operation then existing map information may be modified based at least partly on modified localized environment information. Such modification may be implemented by adding modified localized environment information to map information corresponding to a particular localized environment so as to produce updated map information and or by substituting modified localized environment information for at least a portion of map information corresponding to a particular localized environment so as to produce updated map information. On the other hand if it is determined at operation that changed localized environment information is for a replacement operation then at operation map information may be recreated based at least partly on replacement localized environment information.

For certain example implementations at phase at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information may be detected by mobile device . Map information may correspond to a particular localized environment e.g. of at which mobile device is located. Examples of incidents that apparently conflict with map information are described herein below with particular reference to . At phase data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information may be transmitted from mobile device . Such conflicting incident data may be associated with at least one particular location context identifier which may also be transmitted from mobile device .

Accordingly also at phase a map server e.g. of such as map updating server may receive the data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information from mobile device with mobile device being located at the particular localized environment corresponding to map information . Conflicting incident data may be received in association with the particular location context identifier . Map information may also be associated with the particular location context identifier .

At phase map updating server may analyze the data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information to determine whether the at least one incident does conflict with map information that corresponds to the particular localized environment . At phase map updating server may update map information corresponding to the particular localized environment based at least partly on the data representative of the at least one incident and responsive to the analysis to produce updated map information .

At phase map updating server may transmit updated map information to mobile device . Accordingly mobile device may receive updated map information that reflects the data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicts with the previous map information. The updated map information may correspond to the particular localized environment at which mobile device is located. To identify the updated map information it may be transmitted and or received in association with the at least one particular location context identifier .

For certain example implementations operations of flow diagram A of may be performed at least partially by a mobile device . Also operations of flow diagram B of may be performed at least partially by map server e.g. a map creation server a map dissemination server and or a map updating server . At operation at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information may be detected by a mobile device with the map information corresponding to a particular localized environment at which the mobile device is located. Examples of such incidents e.g. incidents are described herein below with particular reference to .

At operation the data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicts with the map information may be transmitted from the mobile device to a map updating server. For example conflicting incident data may be transmitted from mobile device to map updating server . At operation the data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicts with the map information which is associated with a particular location context identifier may be received from the mobile device at the map updating server with the mobile device located at the corresponding particular localized environment.

At operation the data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicts with the map information may be analyzed by the map updating server to determine whether the at least one incident does conflict with the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment. At operation the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment may be updated by the map updating server based at least partly on the data representative of the at least one incident that is determined to conflict with the map information responsive to the analysis.

At operation the map updating server may transmit the updated map information to one or more mobile devices including the mobile device that transmitted the data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicted with the previous map information. At operation the mobile device may receive the updated map information that reflects the data representative of the at least one incident that apparently conflicted with the previous map information the updated map information corresponding to the particular localized environment at which the mobile device is located.

For certain example implementations first incident may involve an infeasible area and one or more mobile devices such as mobile devices and . As shown mobile device and mobile device are positioned within a zone that is identified in map information e.g. map information as being infeasible as indicated by infeasible area . This may perhaps occur for instance when an area that was previously reserved for a food purveyor in a food court is removed to make room for additional seating space. Mobile device and or mobile device may detect such a discrepancy of an infeasible label applied to a zone in which they are currently located. More specifically a mobile device may detect that it is positioned within a zone that is labeled as an infeasible area by map information.

Thus data representative of at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information may comprise one or more indications that at least one mobile device is positioned within a zone that is labeled as an infeasible area by map information. A mobile device may transmit and a map server may receive such data. In response to receiving such data a map server may update map information corresponding to the particular localized environment in which the mobile device s are positioned by labeling the zone as a feasible area in updated map information. Prior to initiating a relabeling operation a map updating server may institute a predetermined threshold number of mobile devices that are to be detected as being positioned within an infeasible area and or a predetermined period of time over which such conflicting incidents are detected.

For certain example implementations second incident may involve an area that is associated with incorrect annotation information e.g. incorrect point of interest information . For instance a zone may be associated with incorrect annotation information such as Acme Boots . This may perhaps occur for instance when one store closes and is replaced by a new store. A user of a mobile device may detect an incorrectly annotated zone and report the error. More specifically a mobile device may detect that incorrect annotation information that is associated with a zone of map information is in fact incorrect. Here such detection by a mobile device may include detecting input from a user indicating that point of interest information is incorrect.

Thus data representative of at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information may comprise one or more indications that point of interest information associated with a zone of the map information is incorrect. A mobile device may transmit and a map server may receive such data. In response to receiving such data a map server may update the map information corresponding to the particular localized environment pertaining to the incorrect point of interest information by disassociating the point of interest information from the identified zone in the updated map information e.g. by replacing incorrect point of interest information with a none unknown etc. designation .

Furthermore a user may be empowered to submit corrected annotation information e.g. corrected point of interest information such as Acme Sofas . For example detection by a mobile device may further include detection of corrected point of interest information being entered by a user. Thus data representative of at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information may comprise corrected point of interest information for a zone. To facilitate a correction a mobile device may transmit corrected annotation information for zone to at least one map updating server that is capable of updating the map information based at least partly on corrected annotation information for zone . A mobile device may transmit and a map server may receive such data that includes corrected point of interest information for a zone. In response to receiving such data a map server may update map information by associating the corrected point of interest information with an identified zone in updated map information. A map updating server may institute one or more predetermined threshold numbers of mobile devices that detect and report incorrect point of interest information and or that submit corrected point of interest information prior to implementing the disassociating and or the associating operations respectively. Furthermore a map updating server may institute a predetermined time period over which incorrect notifications and or corrected information is reported prior to implementing a given correction operation.

For certain example implementations third incident may involve one or more mobile devices such as mobile devices and and at least one apparent obstacle . Mobile devices and are associated with tracked trajectories that are represented by dashed arrows. Mobile device is shown by way of its trajectory to have moved through a passageway such as a doorway. Mobile device and mobile device on the other hand are shown by way of their respective trajectories as having moved through an apparent obstacle . This may perhaps occur for instance if a store has installed a new entrance to increase foot traffic. Mobile device and or mobile device may detect such a discrepancy between their tracked trajectories and traversable paths derivable from map information. More specifically a mobile device may detect that a tracked trajectory for itself passes through an apparent obstacle that is present in map information.

Thus data representative of at least one incident that apparently conflicts with map information may comprise a tracked trajectory for at least one mobile device that passes through an apparent obstacle present in the map information. Such a tracked trajectory may be of any length including only so long as is required to indicate a location of an apparent obstacle. A mobile device may transmit and a map server may receive such data. In response to receiving such data a map server may update map information corresponding to a particular localized environment by altering an apparent obstacle for the updated map information. For example the apparent obstacle may be marked as tentative or questionable in the updated map information the apparent obstacle may be removed from the updated map information and so forth just to name a couple of examples. Prior to altering an apparent obstacle for updated map information a map updating server may institute a predetermined threshold number of conflicting tracked trajectories that are detected and or numbers of mobile devices that submit such incident reports. Furthermore a map updating server may institute a predetermined time period over which such incidents are reported prior to implementing a given obstacle alteration operation.

For certain example implementations device may include and or comprise at least one electronic device. Device may comprise for example any electronic device having at least one processor and or memory. Examples for device include but are not limited to relatively fixed processing devices e.g. a desktop computer one or more server machines at least one telecommunications node an intelligent router switch an access point some combination thereof etc. relatively mobile processing devices e.g. a notebook computer a personal digital assistant PDA a netbook a slate or tablet computer a portable entertainment device a mobile phone a smart phone a mobile station some combination thereof etc. and so forth.

Power source may provide power to components and or circuitry of device . Power source may be a portable power source such as a battery or a fixed power source such as an outlet or other conduit in a car house or other building to a public utility power source. Power source may also be a transportable power source such as a solar or carbon fuel based generator. Power source may be integrated with or separate from device .

Processor may comprise any one or more processing units. Memory may store contain or otherwise provide access to instructions e.g. a program an application etc. or portion thereof operational data structures processor executable instructions code some combination thereof and so forth that may be executable by processor . Execution of such instructions by one or more processors may transform device into a special purpose computing device apparatus platform some combination thereof and so forth.

Instructions may include map handling instructions map handling information and so forth just to name a couple of examples. In certain example mobile device implementations map handling instructions may correspond to for example instructions that are capable of realizing at least a portion of one or more implementations of flow diagram of such as any of operations at least a portion of the phases shown in usage scenarios and or of the reporting of at least one apparently conflicting incident as shown in schematic diagram of any combination thereof and so forth just to name a few examples. Map handling information may comprise any information that facilitates enables or otherwise relates to map handling for location based services in conjunction with localized environments particularly with regard to mobile devices. Map handling information may include but is not limited to map information that corresponds to a localized environment e.g. at which the mobile device is currently located a location context identifier conflicting incident data any combination thereof and so forth.

In certain example map server implementations map handling instructions may correspond to for example instructions that are capable of realizing at least a portion of one or more implementations of flow diagrams and or of such as any of operations and at least a portion of the operational phases shown in schematic diagram of at least a portion of the phases shown in usage scenarios and or of the receiving and or processing of at least one of the reportings of apparently conflicting incidents shown in schematic diagram of any combination thereof and so forth just to name a few examples. Map handling information may comprise any information facilitating enabling or otherwise relating to map handling for location based services in conjunction with localized environments particularly with regard to map servers e.g. map servers such as a map creation server a map dissemination server and or a map updating server . Map handling information may include but is not limited to map information that corresponds to a localized environment localized environment information a map a location context identifier a mapping data structure conflicting incident data any combination thereof and so forth. Although not explicitly shown instructions may also include instructions to initially create map information from localized environment information e.g. in accordance with the description referencing .

In an example implementation a relatively fixed processing device such as a at least one server and or telecommunications node may execute map handling instructions to create and or update map information based at least partly on localized environment information including changed localized environment information conflicting incident data some combination thereof and so forth. A same or a different relatively fixed processing device may disseminate map information to mobile devices . Map information may be provided to a mobile device to enable or otherwise further performance of some location based service . As still another alternative a mobile device may execute map handling instructions to provide a location based service to a user based at least partly on map handling information which may include a routing graph and or other map information such as annotated points of interest. Other alternatives may instead be implemented without departing from claimed subject matter.

Communication interface s may provide one or more interfaces between device and other devices e.g. and or human operators . Hence communication interface may include a screen speaker keyboard or keys or other human device input output feature s . Communication interface may include a transceiver e.g. transmitter and or receiver a radio an antenna a wired interface connector or other such apparatus some combination thereof etc. to communicate wireless and or wired signals e.g. over wireless or wired communication links . Such communications with at least one communication interface may enable transmitting receiving initiating of transmissions and so forth just to name a few examples. Communication interface may also serve as a bus or other interconnect between and or among other components of device . Other component s if present may comprise one or more other miscellaneous sensors features and so forth.

Methodologies described herein may be implemented by various means depending upon applications according to particular features and or examples. For example such methodologies may be implemented in hardware firmware software discrete fixed logic circuitry any combination thereof and so forth. In a hardware and or logic circuitry implementation for example a processor processing unit may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors generally controllers micro controllers microprocessors electronic devices other devices or units programmed to execute instructions and or designed to perform the functions described herein and or combinations thereof just to name a few examples. Herein the term control logic may encompass logic implemented by software hardware firmware discrete fixed logic circuitry any combination thereof and so forth.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions etc. having instructions that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software coding may be stored in a memory and executed by a processor. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage memory medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

In one or more example implementations the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware discrete fixed logic circuitry some combination thereof and so forth. If implemented in firmware and or software the functions may be stored on a physical computer readable e.g. via electrical digital signals medium as one or more instructions or code e.g. and realized as at least one article of manufacture comprising at least one storage medium having instructions stored thereon . Computer readable media include physical computer storage media that may be encoded with a data structure computer program a combination thereof and so forth. A storage medium may be any available physical medium that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disc storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer and or processor thereof. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers.

Also computer instructions code data may be transmitted via signals over physical transmission media from a transmitter to a receiver e.g. via electrical digital signals . For example software may be transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or physical components of wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave. Combinations of the above may also be included within the scope of physical transmission media. Such computer instructions and or data may be transmitted in portions e.g. first and second portions at different times e.g. at first and second times .

Electronic devices may also operate in conjunction with Wi Fi WLAN or other wireless networks. For example positioning data may be acquired via a Wi Fi or other wireless network. In addition to Wi Fi WLAN signals a wireless mobile device may also receive signals from satellites which may be from a Global Positioning System GPS Galileo GLONASS NAVSTAR QZSS a system that uses satellites from a combination of these systems or any SPS developed in the future each referred to generally herein as a Satellite Positioning System SPS or GNSS Global Navigation Satellite System . Furthermore implementations described herein may be used with positioning determination systems that utilize pseudolites or a combination of satellites and pseudolites. Pseudolites are usually ground based transmitters that broadcast a Pseudo Random Noise PRN code or other ranging code e.g. similar to a GPS or CDMA cellular signal that is modulated on an L band or other frequency carrier signal which may be synchronized with GPS time. Each such transmitter may be assigned a unique PN code so as to permit identification by a remote receiver. Pseudolites may be particularly useful in situations where SPS signals from an orbiting satellite might be unavailable such as in tunnels mines buildings urban canyons or other enclosed areas. Another implementation of pseudolites is known as radio beacons. The term satellite as used herein is also to include pseudolites equivalents of pseudolites and similar and or analogous technologies. The term SPS signals as used herein is also to include SPS like signals from pseudolites or equivalents of pseudolites. Certain implementations may also be applied to femtocells or a combination of systems that includes femtocells. For example femtocells may provide data and or voice communication. Moreover femtocells may provide positioning data.

In an example implementation an SPSU when present may be capable of determining a location of device using an SPS system or systems. Hence example implementations that are described herein may be used with various SPSs. An SPS typically includes a system of transmitters positioned to enable entities to determine their location on or above the Earth based at least in part on signals received from the transmitters. Such a transmitter typically but not necessarily transmits a signal marked with a repeating pseudo random noise PN code of a set number of chips and may be located on ground based control stations user equipment and or space vehicles. In a particular example such transmitters may be located on Earth orbiting satellite vehicles SVs . For example a SV in a constellation of Global Navigation Satellite System GNSS such as Global Positioning System GPS Galileo Glonass or Compass may transmit a signal marked with a PN code that is distinguishable from PN codes transmitted by other SVs in the constellation e.g. using different PN codes for each satellite as in GPS or using the same code on different frequencies as in Glonass . In accordance with certain aspects the techniques presented herein are not restricted to global systems e.g. GNSS for SPS. For example the techniques provided herein may be applied to or otherwise enabled for use in various regional systems such as e.g. Quasi Zenith Satellite System QZSS over Japan Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System IRNSS over India Beidou over China etc. and or various augmentation systems e.g. a Satellite Based Augmentation System SBAS that may be associated with or otherwise enabled for use with one or more global and or regional navigation satellite systems. By way of example but not limitation an SBAS may include an augmentation system s that provides integrity information differential corrections etc. such as e.g. Wide Area Augmentation System WAAS European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service EGNOS Multi functional Satellite Augmentation System MSAS GPS Aided Geo Augmented Navigation or GPS and Geo Augmented Navigation system GAGAN and or the like. Thus as used herein an SPS may include any combination of one or more global and or regional navigation satellite systems and or augmentation systems and SPS signals may include SPS SPS like and or other signals associated with such one or more SPS.

Some portions of this Detailed Description are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on binary digital signals that may be stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular Specification the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software instructions. Algorithmic descriptions or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm here and generally may be considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations or similar signal processing leading to a desired result. In this context operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared transmitted received or otherwise manipulated.

It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals as bits data values elements symbols characters variables terms numbers numerals or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless specifically stated otherwise as is apparent from the discussion above it is appreciated that throughout this Specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining ascertaining obtaining transmitting receiving performing applying positioning locating analyzing storing updating providing creating disseminating modifying recreating detecting or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this Specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic electrical and or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.

While there has been illustrated and described what are presently considered to be example features it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concepts described herein. Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to the particular examples disclosed but that such claimed subject matter may also include all aspects falling within the scope of appended claims and equivalents thereof.

