---

title: Reperfusion protection in resuscitation
abstract: An apparatus and method for resuscitating a patient suffering from cardiac arrest or another condition in which normal circulation has been interrupted. A ventilator is used for delivering a gas mixture to the patient. The ventilator is configured to adjust the partial pressure of CO2 to one or more partial pressures high enough to slow expiration of CO2 from the patient's lungs and thereby maintain a reduced pH in the patient's tissues for a period of time following return of spontaneous circulation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09457165&OS=09457165&RS=09457165
owner: ZOLL Medical Corporation
number: 09457165
owner_city: Chelmsford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110203
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims priority to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 339 307 filed on Jan. 24 2006now abandoned.

Cardiac Arrest or Sudden Death is a descriptor for a diverse collection of physiological abnormalities with a common cardiac aetiology wherein the patient typically presents with the symptoms of pulselessness apnoea and unconsciousness. Cardiac arrest is widespread with an estimated 300 000 victims annually in the U.S. alone and a similar estimate of additional victims worldwide. Early defibrillation is the major factor in sudden cardiac arrest survival. There are in fact very few cases of cardiac arrest victims saved which were not treated with defibrillation. There are many different classes of abnormal electrocardiographic ECG rhythms some of which are treatable with defibrillation and some of which are not. The standard terminology for this is shockable and non shockable ECG rhythms respectively. Non shockable ECG rhythms are further classified into hemodynamically stable and hemodynamically unstable rhythms. Hemodynamically unstable rhythms are those which are incapable of supporting a patient s survival with adequate blood flow non viable . For example a normal sinus rhythm is considered non shockable and is hemodynamically stable viable . Some common ECG rhythms encountered during cardiac arrest that are both non shockable and hemodynamically unstable are bradycardia idioventricular rhythms pulseless electrical activity PEA and asystole. Bradycardias during which the heart beats too slowly are non shockable and also possibly non viable. If the patient is unconscious during bradycardia it can be helpful to perform chest compressions until pacing becomes available. Idioventricular rhythms in which the electrical activity that initiates myocardial contraction occurs in the ventricles but not the atria can also be non shockable and non viable usually electrical patterns begin in the atria . Idioventricular rhythms typically result in slow heart rhythms of 30 or 40 beats per minute often causing the patient to lose consciousness. The slow heart rhythm occurs because the ventricles ordinarily respond to the activity of the atria but when the atria stop their electrical activity a slower backup rhythm occurs in the ventricles. Pulseless Electrical Activity PEA the result of electro mechanical dissociation EMD in which there is the presence of rhythmic electrical activity in the heart but the absence of myocardial contractility is non shockable and non viable and would require chest compressions as a first response. Asystole in which there is neither electrical nor mechanical activity in the heart cannot be successfully treated with defibrillation as is also the case for the other non shockable non viable rhythms. Pacing is recommended for asystole and there are other treatment modalities that an advanced life support team can perform to assist such patients e.g. intubation and drugs. The primary examples of shockable rhythms that can be successfully treated with defibrillation are ventricular fibrillation ventricular tachycardia and ventricular flutter.

Normally electrochemical activity within a human heart causes the organ s muscle fibers to contract and relax in a synchronized manner. This synchronized action of the heart s musculature results in the effective pumping of blood from the ventricles to the body s vital organs. In the case of ventricular fibrillation VF however abnormal electrical activity within the heart causes the individual muscle fibers to contract in an unsynchronized and chaotic way. As a result of this loss of synchronization the heart loses its ability to effectively pump blood. Defibrillators produce a large current pulse that disrupts the chaotic electrical activity of the heart associated with ventricular fibrillation and provides the heart s electrochemical system with the opportunity to re synchronize itself. Once organized electrical activity is restored synchronized muscle contractions usually follow leading to the restoration of effective cardiac pumping.

First described in humans in 1956 by Dr. Paul Zoll transthoracic defibrillation has become the primary therapy for cardiac arrest ventricular tachycardia VT and atrial fibrillation AF . Monophasic waveforms dominated until 1996 when the first biphasic waveform became available for clinical use. Attempts have also been made to use multiple electrode systems to improve defibrillation efficacy. While biphasic waveforms and multiple electrode systems have shown improved efficacy relative to monophasic defibrillation there is still significant room for improvement shock success rate for ventricular fibrillation VF remains less than 70 even with the most recent biphasic technology. In these cases shock success was defined to be conversion of a shockable rhythm into a non shockable rhythm including those non shockable rhythms which are also non viable. Actual survival to hospital discharge rates remain an abysmal ten percent or less. Survival rates from cardiac arrest remain as low as 1 3 in major U.S. cities including those with extensive advanced prehospital medical care infrastructures.

Approximately 40 50 of cardiac arrest victims are resuscitated by paramedics and emergency medical technicians EMTs in the field and brought to the hospital for further treatment however due to the insult on the victim s vital organs from the cardiac arrest typically only about 25 or approximately 40 000 out of 600 000 cardiac arrest victims worldwide of those victims who survive to the hospital will survive to being discharged from the hospital.

The treatment window for cardiac arrest with current treatments of defibrillation cardiopulmonary resuscitation and inotropic e.g. epinephrine drug treatment is very narrow. Long term survival rates from the time of victim collapse decrease at a roughly exponential rate with a time constant of roughly 2 minutes. Thus just two minutes of delay in treatment using the currently recommended treatment protocols result in a long term survival rate of 30 35 . After 15 minutes the long term survival rates are below 5 . While the response times of emergency medical systems have improved significantly over the last quarter century to the point that average times from emergency call to arrival at the victim is typically 9 minutes or less bystander delays in making the emergency call typically add 2 3 minutes to the total arrest time for a total of 11 12 minutes. In addition the bystander making the emergency call may not even have witnessed the cardiac arrest which may have occurred at some point in the past. Unwitnessed arrest accounts for at least half of all cardiac arrests. Cardiac arrest downtimes are only reported for witnessed arrests it has been estimated however that if unwitnessed arrests were to be included the average downtime for all victims would exceed 15 minutes. At the time of initial collapse the ECGs of nearly all cardiac arrest victims are shockable rhythms such as VF or VT after 15 minutes however the ECG rhythms of most cardiac arrest victims have degenerated into the non shockable rhythms of PEA or asystole. Attempts to reduce this response time through the widespread adoption of AEDs has been minimally successful at best for a variety of economic and social factors. It would be thus advantageous to have treatment methods available to deal with cardiac arrest victims with profound ischemia due to long downtimes.

During cardiac arrest cerebral blood flow ceases and global cerebral hypoxic ischemic injury begins within minutes. Myocardial and neuronal tissue is able to remain viable during prolonged periods of ischemia as long as twenty minutes but paradoxically will sustain immediate damage during the return of circulation and oxygenation. It has been shown in a variety of studies at the tissue level and animal model that successful resuscitation with return of spontaneous circulation ROSC leads to a secondary cascade of injury related to reperfusion injury. This reperfusion injury is particularly acute in neuronal tissue. When neurons and myocytes shift to anaerobic metabolism as a result of oxygen depletion during the course of ATP hydrolysis lactate is converted to lactic acid H is generated and intracellular pH drops. This activates the sodium hydrogen NaH exchange ion channels which however require ATP and thus become depressed during ischemia. There is thus a build up of intracellular H during ischemia. During reperfusion the NaH exchange channel is reactivated causing a net influx of sodium which then causes a net influx of calcium via the sodium calcium NCX exchange channel in order to exteriorize the elevated sodium ions. Elevation of intracellular calcium can lead to an accumulation of this ion by mitochondria with activation of mitochondrial permeability transition MPT .

During reperfusion intracellular levels of glutamate an excitatory neurotransmitter released from presynaptic terminals increases markedly. Glutamate activates ion channel complexes particularly the N methyl D aspartate NMDA receptors which when activated increase calcium conductance from the extracellular to intracellular fluid. Mitochondrial calcium increases resulting in the formation of reactive oxygen species. Both mitochondrial calcium overload and ROS production initiate the formation of large pores in the mitochondrial membrane. Opening of high conductance mitochondrial transition pores MTP in the mitochondrial inner membrane initiates onset of the mitochondrial permeability transition MPT . The MTP pores conduct both positively and negatively charged solutes of up to 1 500 Da. Pore opening causes the collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential and cessation of mitochondrial ATP production. In addition multiple biochemical cascades lead to the production of oxygen free radicals and the activation of proteases endonucleases phospholipases and xanthine oxidase which cause destruction of cell membranes and other essential cytoskeletal structures such as microtubules. Even if these events are not immediately fatal to the cell some neurons later undergo programmed cell death apoptosis .

After successful cardiac resuscitation and ROSC cerebral blood flow may remain abnormally low for several hours. After an initial hyperemia resulting from high circulating levels of catecholamines cerebral blood flow decreases just as the cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen increases. This can lead to a prolonged state of relative cerebral ischemia. This prolonged mismatch between cerebral metabolic rate and blood flow and ongoing biochemical and molecular processes related to delayed neuronal apoptotic and necrotic cell death provide the scientific rationale for induced hypothermia as a form of neuroprotection after cardiac arrest. One method developed is the cooling of comatose cardiac arrest survivors to approximately 34 degrees Celsius within 4 hours of arrest onset. The exact mechanism for the therapeutic effects of hypothermia is not fully understood but has been shown in several studies to enhance the survival rates of patients who are initially resuscitated the approximately 40 50 of victims making it to the hospital . Hypothermia is common in the cardiac intensive care hospital environment such as in bypass operations etc but there are two related drawbacks of hypothermia which have prevented its widespread use in the pre hospital environment.

The first of these drawbacks is the primary biomedical engineering challenge of hypothermia the large thermal mass of the victim and the difficulty of cooling the victim quickly and safely. While it has been shown that hypothermia is beneficial as long as it is applied within 4 hours of cardiac arrest studies have also shown that cooling prior to resuscitation provides additive therapeutic benefits. While the causes for this are only speculative one of the factors is likely the positive effects of hypothermia during the reperfusion phase of resuscitation. Practically speaking it is highly undesirable to delay defibrillation and resuscitation to cool a patient to the proper temperature. Non invasive methods of cooling take at minimum 10 minutes to 1 hour while invasive methods such as extraction and cooling of the blood may take only 3 5 minutes but are hazardous to the patient particularly in the pre hospital environment. In the case of defibrillation even a delay of 3 minutes can result in a decrease in survival of 30 . While hypothermia may be effective at counteracting longer term deleterious effects of ischemia and reperfusion it would be desirable to have a treatment that can provide immediate protective effects against reperfusion injury while at the same time not delaying any current resuscitation interventions.

The mechanisms allowing prolonged cell survival during ischemia and minimizing lethal cell injury after reperfusion remain incompletely understood. It has been shown in studies that the naturally occurring acidosis of ischemia like hypothermia strongly protects renal cells myocytes and hepatocytes against ischemia induced cell death. In contrast the return of extracellular pH to physiological levels is an event that actually precipitates lethal cell injury termed the pH paradox . It has been hypothesized by researchers that the pH dependency of reperfusion injury may be the consequence of the pH dependency of the MTP opening. Conductance of the NMDA channel is also known to decrease steeply when extracellular pH is reduced below 7.0. Intracellular pH may also be important intracellular acidosis during and after simulated ischemia and reperfusion has been shown to protect cultured cardiac myocytes against injury. Increased extracellular proton concentration will also minimize the inward sodium influx via the Na H exchange ion channels thereby reducing the intracellular sodium concentrations and the net influx of calcium via the sodium calcium exchanger channels and thus minimizing calcium overload.

Ventilation is a key component of cardiopulmonary resuscitation during treatment of cardiac arrest. Venous blood returns to the heart from the muscles and organs depleted of oxygen O and full of carbon dioxide CO . Blood from various parts of the body is mixed in the heart mixed venous blood and pumped to the lungs. In the lungs the blood vessels break up into a net of small vessels surrounding tiny lung sacs alveoli . The net sum of vessels surrounding the alveoli provides a large surface area for the exchange of gases by diffusion along their concentration gradients. A concentration gradient exists between the partial pressure of CO PCO in the mixed venous blood PvCO and the alveolar PCO. The COdiffuses into the alveoli from the mixed venous blood from the beginning of inspiration until an equilibrium is reached between the PvCOand the alveolar PCOat some time during the breath. When the subject exhales the first gas that is exhaled comes from the trachea and major bronchi which do not allow gas exchange and therefore will have a gas composition similar to the inhaled gas. The gas at the end of this exhalation is considered to have come from the alveoli and reflects the equilibrium COconcentration between the capillaries and the alveoli the PCOin this gas is called end tidal PCO PECO .

When the blood passes the alveoli and is pumped by the heart to the arteries it is known as the arterial PCO PaCO . The arterial blood has a PCOequal to the PCOat equilibrium between the capillaries and the alveoli. With each breath some COis eliminated from the lung and fresh air containing little or no CO COconcentration is assumed to be 0 is inhaled and dilutes the residual alveolar PCO establishing a new gradient for COto diffuse out of the mixed venous blood into the alveoli. The rate of breathing or minute ventilation V usually expressed in L min is exactly that required to eliminate the CObrought to the lungs and maintain an equilibrium PCO and PaCO of approximately 40 mmHg in normal humans . When one produces more CO e.g. as a result of fever or exercise more COis produced and carried to the lungs. One then has to breathe harder hyperventilate to wash out the extra COfrom the alveoli and thus maintain the same equilibrium PaCO. But if the COproduction stays normal and one hyperventilates then the PaCOfalls. Conversely if COproduction stays constant and ventilation falls arterial PCOrises. Some portion of the inspired air volume goes to the air passages trachea and major bronchi and alveoli with little blood perfusing them and thus doesn t contribute to removal of COduring exhalation. This portion is termed dead space gas. That portion of V that goes to well perfused alveoli and participates in gas exchange is called the alveolar ventilation VA and exhaled gas that had participated in gas exchange in the alveoli is termed alveolar gas .

Monitoring and control of ventilation parameters as a function of measured expiratory COis commonly used in ventilation systems. U.S. Pat. No. 4 112 938 describes a respirator that uses measurement of alveolar gas COpartial pressure as a means of adjusting a reservoir size to control inspiratory COconcentration. U.S. Pat. No. 5 320 093 describes a ventilator that adjusts inspiratory COconcentration so as to enhance a patient s natural ventilatory drive during recovery from anesthesia. In U.S. Pat. No. 5 402 796 a method is described which provides better accuracy of PaCOutilizing an initial calibration sample. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 778 872 6 612 308B2 and 6 799 570B2 portable ventilators that use reservoirs to store exhaled air for later use in rebreathing during inspiration so as to keep COlevels constant isocapnia . U.S. Pat. No. 6 612 308B2 is further refined in U.S. Pat. No. 6 622 725B1 by providing a method for separating out the alveolar gas from the dead space gas thus concentrating the expiratory COfor later rebreathing. U.S. Pat. No. 6 951 216B2 describes a ventilator utilizing a space efficient COexchanger that absorbs and stores expiratory COgas that is later released into the inpsiratory gas stream to enhance COconcentrations.

In general the invention features an apparatus and method for resuscitating a patient suffering from cardiac arrest or another condition in which normal circulation has been interrupted. A ventilator is used for delivering a gas mixture to the patient. The ventilator is configured to adjust the partial pressure of CO2 to one or more partial pressures high enough to slow expiration of CO2 from the patient s lungs and thereby maintain a reduced pH in the patient s tissues for a period of time following return of spontaneous circulation.

In preferred implementations one or more of the following features may be incorporated. The partial pressure of COmay be adjusted to be higher than ambient COpartial pressure during the period of time. Adjustment of the partial pressure of COmay include adding COto the gas inspired by the patient. The apparatus may comprise a sensor and associated processing for measuring a physiological status of the patient wherein the partial pressure of COmay be adjusted at least in part in response to the output of the sensor. The sensor and associated processing may be configured to detect return of spontaneous circulation and wherein the partial pressure of COmay be changed in response to detection of return of spontaneous circulation. The period of time may be greater than 30 seconds. The period of time may be greater than 3 minutes. The sensor may comprise a COsensor. Adjustment of the partial pressure of COmay have the effect of maintaining the pH of the patient s tissues below 7.0 for the period of time following return of spontaneous circulation. The pH of the patient s tissues may be maintained below 6.8. The pH of the patient s tissues may be maintained below 6.5. The apparatus may further comprise a defibrillator a chest compressor an infuser and or a sensor and associated processing for determining the pH of the patient s tissue wherein the partial pressure of COmay be adjusted at least in part in response to the pH of the patient s tissue. The partial pressure of COmay be adjusted to maintain tissue pH below 6.8 for a period of time following return of spontaneous circulation. The partial pressure of COmay be gradually lowered over at least a portion of the period of time so as to gradually raise the pH of the patient s tissues. The apparatus may further comprise processing using a mathematical model of the relationship between COretention in the patient and the pH of the patient s tissues. The mathematical model may comprise processing using the Henderson Hasselbalch equations. The apparatus may further comprise apparatus and processing for measuring the inspired volume and expired volume of COin the ventilation cycle and using the inspired and expired volumes to adjust the partial pressure of COand apparatus and processing for monitoring an ECOlevel and wherein the partial pressure of COmay be adjusted to maintain the ECOlevel above a level found in the arrest victim prior to the arrest. The adjustment of the partial pressure of COmay be accomplished by adjusting the partial pressure between a lower level in a first cycle and a higher level in a second cycle wherein in the first cycle the partial pressure of COmay be lower than a previously measured ECOlevel and wherein in the second cycle the partial pressure of COmay be higher than the previously measured ECOlevel and wherein the lower and higher levels may be adjusted to maintain ECOat a desired level. The ventilator and chest compressor may be controlled so that a ratio of chest compression rate to ventilation rate is less than 15 2 during at least a portion of the period of time following return of spontaneous circulation. The ratio may be less than 5 1. The ratio may be about 6 2. The apparatus may further comprise a fluid infusion device. The fluid infusion device may be configured to infuse fluids containing metabolic substances during reperfusion. The metabolic substances may comprise amino acids. The amino acids may comprise aspartate dihydroxyacetone phosphate or glutamate. The apparatus may further comprise a defibrillator compressor and infuser. The defibrillator compressor ventilator and infuser may be separate devices and may be linked by a communications link. An additional computing device may be used to synchronize all of the separate devices. There may be both negative and positive pressures available from the ventilator. The ventilator may be configured to elevate oxygen levels to greater than 40 . The period of time may begin prior to the return of spontaneous circulation. The period of time may begin immediately prior to the return of spontaneous circulation.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

There are a great many different implementations of the invention possible too many to possibly describe herein. Some possible implementations that are presently preferred are described below. It cannot be emphasized too strongly however that these are descriptions of implementations of the invention and not descriptions of the invention which is not limited to the detailed implementations described in this section but is described in broader terms in the claims.

Some implementations may reduce reperfusion injury by maintaining a low tissue pH during the time period immediately prior to and from 0 60 minutes subsequent to the return of spontaneous circulation ROSC by means of addition of carbon dioxide to the inspiratory gases while at the same time increasing oxygen content relative to normal room air concentrations to enhance oxygenation of the brain heart and other vital organs.

Referring to the block diagram in shows an integrated resuscitation system IRS with components designed to address various aspects of a resuscitation defibrillator mechanical compressor and ventilator . By control of the partial pressures of the ventilation gases particularly oxygen ambient air and carbon dioxide via the mixing valves the IRS can maintain a patient s tissue pH at approximately the below normal level present immediately prior to ROSC.

The tissue pH is controlled by the following well known physiological mechanism. The transport of COcan have a significant impact on the acid base status of the blood and tissues. The lung excretes over 10 000 molar equivalents of carbonic acid per day compared to less than 100 molar equivalent of fixed acids by the kidneys. Therefore by altering alveolar ventilation and the elimination of CO the acidity of the tissues of the brain heart gut and other organs can be modified. COis carried in the blood in three forms dissolved as bicarbonate and in combination with proteins such as carbamino compounds. In solution carbon dioxide hydrates to form carbonic acid CO HO HCO

The largest fraction of carbon dioxide in the blood is in the form of bicarbonate ion which is formed by ionization of carbonic acid HCO H HCO 2H CO

Using the law of mass action the Henderson Hasselbalch equation is derived H K HCO HCO or H K P HCO where Pis the total concentration of COand HCO. The log form of the Hasselbalch equation takes the form pH pK log HCO 0.03 P where Kis the dissociation constant of carbonic acid equal to 6.1.

Normal HCO concentration is 24 mmol liter with a resultant pH of 7.4. During total ischemia induced by cardiac arrest or trauma pH will fall to below 7 and commonly in the range of 6.5 6.8 as a result of increasing levels of CO. At the resumption of circulation and gas exchange in the alveoli the end tidal carbon dioxide ECO value as measured by the commonly used capnograph or capnometer increases rapidly from a value typically below 10 mmHg found during arrest to a supranormal value of 50 75 mmHg normal values are approximately 35 mmHg as the body attempts to reduce its COlevels.

Referring to phase I represents airway dead space. It is the CO free portion of the exhaled breath from the conducting airways. Phase II represents the mixing of airway dead space gas with alveolar gas and is characterized by a significant rise in CO. Phase III represents alveolar volume. The plateau reflects the level of effective ventilation in the alveoli. Two lines are constructed on the graph one on the slope of Phase III and the other such that areas p and q are equal.

Airway dead space is measured from the start of expiration to the point where the vertical line crosses the exhaled volume axis. The volume of COin the breath is equal to area X the total area under the curve. Adding individual breath volumes allows minute COelimination to be calculated in ml min. Physiologic Vd Vt as well as physiologic and alveolar dead space can also be calculated if arterial PCOis known. A line representing the arterial PCOvalue is constructed parallel to the exhaled volume axis creating areas Y and Z. Area X represents the volume of COin the exhaled tidal volume. Areas Y and Z represent wasted ventilation due to alveolar and airway dead space respectively.

Referring to and the flowchart in the processing unit made up of an electronic processor such as a microprocessor as well as memory and support logic first determines that a cardiac arrest is in progress by one or a combination of such known techniques as 1 electrocardiographic ECG analysis to determine whether the ECG is a rhythm due to ventricular fibrillation ventricular tachycardia PEA or asystole or a rhythm of supraventricular origin such as a normal sinus rhythm 2 analysis of the transthoracic impedance signal to determine whether there is blood flow or 3 simply by means of an input via the user interface by the rescuer indicating that an arrest is in progress. If an arrest is determined to be in progress the inspiratory gas mixture is adjusted via electronically controlled flow valves in the differential flow control DFC subunit to be predominantly oxygen 60 100 . Once in the CARDIAC ARREST state the processing unit will wait for input that defines ROSC. This input may be as simple as an input via the user interface by the rescuer that ROSC has occurred though preferably the input includes a capnometric signal measuring end tidal CO ECO values in the expired air. When the processing unit detects an increase of more than 30 of the baseline cardiac arrest ECOvalue in 30 seconds and a value greater than 25 mmHg the processing unit will enter the ROSC state and begin the process of adding COto the inspired gas mixture.

In some implementations the desired partial gas pressure of COin the inspired gas mixture is solely a function of the ECOvalue. The first ventilation will have the flow ratios of oxygen room air and COset such that the COpartial pressure CO is 90 of the ECOvalue CO . The processing unit then checks the ECOvalue of the subsequent exhalation to verify that the end tidal value is higher than the CO if so the next COis set to 110 of the most recent ECO. If the ECOis not found to be higher than the CO then the partial pressure of COin the next ventilation is reduced by 10 . If after three such cycles where the ECOis not found to be higher than the CO then the COis reduced to zero to get a baseline level for expired CO. If on the ventilation cycle where the COwas set to 110 of the ECOvalue CO the ECOvalue of the subsequent exhalation is not lower than the COthen the partial pressure of COfor the next ventilation cycle will be increased a further 10 .

Referring to the ventilator provides for both negative and positive pressures by means of the double venturi such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 664 563. Safety mechanisms are provided by shutoff valve and exhaust valve . Heater humidifier element conditions the gas prior to entering the inspiration circuit and capnometric measurements are determined using the capnometric sensor and tidal volume sensor .

Referring again to by measuring both flow rates and the COconcentration partial pressure the quantity of COfor the inspiration and expiration cycle can be tracked by integrating the COflow. Though the amount of excess COmay be unknown the amount of COtransferred from the bloodstream to the alveoli can be accurately controlled by measuring the difference in COvolume on the inspired and expired cycles. Thus to achieve constant COlevels COis increased to the level such that the volumes of COon inspired and expired cycles are equal. Volumetric measurements for the inspired and expired cycles may be averaged over several cycles to increase accuracy.

In other implementations either the tissue COor pH are measured by such methods as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 055 447 which describes a sublingual tissue COsensor or U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 813 403 6 564 088 and 6 766 188 which describe a method and device for measuring tissue pH via near infrared spectroscopy NIRS . NIRS technology allows the simultaneous measurement of tissue PO PCO and pH. One drawback of previous methods for the measurement of tissue pH is that the measurements provided excellent relative accuracy for a given baseline measurement performed in a series of measurements over the course of a resuscitation but absolute accuracy was not as good as a result of patient specific offsets such as skin pigment. One of the benefits of the currently described implementations is that they do not require absolute accuracy of these pH measurements only that the offset and gain be stable over the course of the resuscitation. Because tissue pH responds slowly over the course of multiple ventilation cycles it is used primarily to augment control of ECOlevels by adjusting COwith the goal of regulating tissue pH per the following regimen 1 during the first 5 minutes following ROSC the pH should remain flat 2 during the time period of 5 10 minutes the tissue pH should increase no more than 0.4 pH units minute and should be limited to not increase above an absolute number of 6.8 and 3 during the 10 15 minute time period if the pH is still less than 6.8 COis adjusted to allow pH to increase at a rate of approximately 0.4 pH units minute and if tissue pH is greater than 7 then COis adjusted to a slower rate of 0.2 pH units minute.

In some cases such as cardiac arrest cases with shorter periods of ischemia it may be desirable to reduce pH levels below the levels present in the cardiac arrest victim by augmenting COlevels. In such cases pH would be decreased during phase 1 of the regimen described in the previous paragraph.

Tissue CO and thus pH as well are adjusted by increasing or decreasing inspired COlevels via the COand COlevels for instance decreasing both levels will cause additional COto be exhaled thus reducing tissue pH. Adjustments are made in approximately 10 increments at approximately 3 times per minute. The low update rate of COand COlevels is due to the fact that the time constant for pH changes due to COchanges is slow as well.

In other implementations medical knowledge such as that described in Crit Care Med 2000 Vol. 28 No. 11 Suppl. is incorporated into a closed loop feedback system to augment the methods described above for controlling tissue pH during resuscitation. As the author describes the system of differential equations has been described in a number of publications. In this specific instance the human circulation is represented by seven compliant chambers connected by resistances through which blood may flow. The compliances correspond to the thoracic aorta abdominal aorta superior vena cava and right heart abdominal and lower extremity veins carotid arteries and jugular veins. In addition the chest compartment contains a pump representing the pulmonary vascular and left heart compliances. This pump may be configured to function either as a heart like cardiac pump in which applied pressure squeezes blood from the heart itself through the aortic valve or as a global thoracic pressure pump in which applied pressure squeezes blood from the pulmonary vascular bed through the left heart and into the periphery. Values for physiologic variables describing a textbook normal 70 kg man are used to specify compliances and resistances in the model. The distribution of vascular conductances 1 resistances into cranial thoracic and caudal components reflects textbook distributions of cardiac output to various body regions. In addition to these equations implementations may incorporate inspiratory volumetric measurement and the universal alveolar airway equation the Henderson Hasselbalch equation and a three compartment model of carbon dioxide storage in the body. The compartment with the lowest time constant corresponds to the well perfused organs of brain blood kidneys heart the second compartment corresponds to skeletal muscle and the third compartment corresponds to all other tissue.

Referring to a closed loop feedback method is employed using state space methods with the system estimation block provided by a physiological model as described above with augmentations to include COand pH effects. The Feedback Controller may employ such traditional control system methods as proportional difference integral PID or state feedback control methods known to those skilled in the art.

Since the cardiac arrest victim is spontaneously breathing during ROSC and the central chemoreceptors will be stimulated by the elevated COlevels and depressed pH it is necessary for the ventilator to respond to the victim s own inspiratory efforts. Pressure sensing is used to determine patient respiratory effort. A combination of synchronized intermittent mandatory ventilation SIMV and inspiratory pressure support ventilation PSV are used to provide proper responsiveness to victim respiratory needs while at the same time providing a sufficient amount of minute ventilation so that pCOcan be regulated via CO. SIMV allows the victim to take breaths between artificial breaths and PSV assists the victim in making an inspiration of a pattern that is largely of their own control. With PSV the amount of support is variable with more support being provided in the early stages of ROSC and the support gradually reduced as the victim s status improves during the course of ROSC.

The drug infuser may be used to deliver other agents such as glutamate aspartate or other metabolically active agents that may be particularly effective during the pH depressed reperfusion state of the invention in renormalizing lactate levels and generating the ATP stores necessary to restore cytosolic calcium homeostasis prior to allowing pH to increase.

The chest compressor and ventilator may be physically separate from the defibrillator and the physiological monitor and control of the chest compressor and ventilator may be accomplished by a communications link . The communications link may take the form of a cable connecting the devices but preferably the link is via a wireless protocol such as Bluetooth or a wireless network protocol such as Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11. The separate chest compressor can be a portable chest compression device such as that commercially available as the Autopulse provided by ZOLL Circulatory Systems of Sunnyvale Calif. The separate ventilator can be a ventilator such as that is commercially available as the iVent provided by Versamed of Pearl River N.Y. The separate drug infuser can be a drug infusion device such as that commercially available as the Power Infuser provided by Infusion Dynamics of Plymouth Meeting Pa. or the Colleague CX provided by Baxter Healthcare Corp. of Round Lake Ill. The chest compressor ventilator drug infuser and defibrillator can also be integrated into one housing such as that for the Autopulse provided by ZOLL Circulatory Systems of Sunnyvale Calif..

In other implementations control and coordination for the overall resuscitation event and the delivery of the various therapies may be accomplished by a device or processing element external to either the chest compressor ventilator or defibrillator. For instance the device may be a laptop computer or other handheld computer or a dedicated computing device that will download and process the ECG data from the defibrillator analyze the ECG signals perform the determinations based on the analysis and control the other therapeutic devices including the defibrillator . While the system has been described for cardiac arrest it is also applicable for trauma victims or other forms of arrest where the victim is suffering from amongst other conditions a global ischemia and resuscitation from which requires the patient to transition through a state of reperfusion.

Many other implementations of the invention other than those described above are within the invention which is defined by the following claims. References to processing in the claims include a microprocessor and associated memory and hardware executing software.

