---

title: Systems, methods, and media for managing ambient adaptability of web applications and web services
abstract: Systems, methods, and media for managing web content. Methods may include the steps of providing web content associable with a web server, evaluating ambient data received from the web server and ambient data from at least one third party source, storing the ambient data in a database, selectively modifying content included in the web content based upon the ambient data, and providing the modified web content to the web server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547626&OS=09547626&RS=09547626
owner: SDL plc
number: 09547626
owner_city: Maidenhead
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20110129
---
This nonprovisional patent application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 016 989 filed on Jan. 29 2011 titled SYSTEMS METHODS AND MEDIA FOR WEB CONTENT MANAGEMENT which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety including all references cited therein.

The present invention relates generally to web content management and more specifically but not by way of limitation to systems methods and media for managing web content.

According to some embodiments the present invention is directed to methods for managing web content that include the steps of a providing web content associable with a web server b evaluating ambient data received from the web server and ambient data from at least one third party source c storing the ambient data in a database d selectively modifying content included in the web content based upon the ambient data and e providing the modified web content to the web server.

According to other embodiments the present invention may be directed to systems for managing web content that includes a a memory for storing a web content management application that includes computer readable instructions comprising 1 a content manager module adapted to i maintain a global marketing framework indicative of a marketing campaign and ii generate web content from at least a portion of the global marketing framework the web content adapted to be hosted on a web server and 2 an ambient data framework adapted to i evaluating ambient data received from the web server and ambient data from at least one third party source ii store the ambient data in a database and iii selectively modify content included in the web content based upon the ambient data and 3 the content manager module being adapted to provide the web content having modified content to the web server and b a processor adapted to execute the web content management application.

According to some embodiments the present invention may be directed to non transitory computer readable storage medium having a computer program embodied thereon the computer program executable by a processor in a computing system to perform a method for managing web content that includes a providing web content associable with a web server b evaluating ambient data received from the web server and ambient data from at least one third party source c storing the ambient data in a database d selectively modifying content included in the web content based upon the ambient data and e providing the modified web content to the web server.

While this invention is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail several specific embodiments with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the invention to the embodiments illustrated.

Generally speaking the systems and methods provided herein may be adapted to gather ambient data indicative of the preferences of end users accessing web content such as web pages. The systems and methods may also gather ambient data from third party content sources and modify the web content based upon the visitor information. Therefore the content of the web content may be tailored to the preferences of the end users.

Referring to a schematic diagram of an exemplary architecture for practicing aspects of the present invention is depicted. Generally speaking the architecture may include a client system or a plurality of client systems also referred to herein as client device that are communicatively coupled with a web server via a network . The network may include any one of a number of different communication channels and in some embodiments may include the Internet.

The client system may include any general purpose computing system that may implement a web browser application or other suitable applications adapted to request and provide information such as web content to and from a web server . A suitable client system may include the computing system disclosed with reference to .

When a visitor requests a web content web page having one or more interactive content such as a banner link etc. via the web browser associated with their client device the client device transmits the request to the web server via the network .

According to some embodiments before the web server provides the web content to the client device an ambient data framework associated with a content management CM system B also referred to herein as CM Environment B may customize the content of the web content to correspond to the preferences of the visitor before the web server provides the web content to the client device . The CM environment B may include an number of computing systems such as client devices servers applications and the like that incorporate a web content management application and other associated applications for creating web content.

As stated above web content may include a web page that incorporates a plurality of advertisements. In other embodiments the web page may itself be the advertisement. A web page may include advertisements in the form of interactive content such as banners hyperlinks and the like that are added to the web page. Interactive content may direct visitors to an advertising portal or landing page associated with a provider. For the sake of brevity web pages that include both interactive and non interactive content along with any landing pages associated therewith may hereinafter be referred to as the web content. Additionally the term provider may be understood to include any individual or entity associated with an advertisement.

According to some embodiments the ambient data framework may be associated with a web content management application A. In some embodiments the web content management application A may generally include a content manager module B adapted to maintain a global marketing framework not shown indicative of a marketing campaign and generate web content also not shown from at least a portion of the global marketing framework via the web server .

The web server hosting the web content may be adapted to determine ambient data by analyzing visitor behavior utilizing one or more types of web analytics. It will be understood that the terms ambient data may be understood to include a wide spectrum of data. Generally speaking ambient data may encompass specific data indicative of a visitor generic data such as ephemeral data that allow the ambient data framework to characterize the conditions under which the data is collected and data indicative of the web application hosting environment. Non limiting examples of ambient data may include web analytics determined by a web server specific transaction data from a visitor relationship management CRM system a social networking profile or social networking content located on a social networking platform and combinations thereof.

Web analytics may be generally described as systems and methods for collecting measuring analyzing storing and reporting data associated with a visitor s web behavior for the purposes of determining the preferences of the visitor. The systems and methods of the present invention may utilize this information to optimize the efficiency of web content e.g. advertisements associated with web pages . For example the web content may be customized to correspond to the preferences of the visitor.

Generally speaking web analytics may include functions such as click analytics visitor lifecycle analytics hit data indicative of the number of request for a file from the web server and so forth. Web analytics may also include page view data this can include unique views from different client devices or aggregate numbers visit or session data indicative of multiple hits to the web page from a specific client device or the number of times an advertisement has been displayed on a web page. Additionally bounce rates that are indicative of a visitor requesting a web page and then exiting the web page without visiting any other associated web pages may be utilized. In some embodiments the web server may evaluate the percentage of visitors who exit the web page without clicking an advertisement along with an average amount of time that visitors spend viewing the web page. While several examples of web analytics have been disclosed one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that these examples are not an exhaustive list. Therefore additional types of web analytics that would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art with the present disclosure before them are likewise contemplated for use in accordance with the present technology.

In addition to web analytics web browsers associated with the client device may directly expose certain types of visitor specific a.k.a. personally identifiable information to the web server . For example the web browser may provide information indicative of a visitor name a visitor identification client ID an address a postal code a telephone number a credit card number a social networking profile an Internet protocol address a media access control MAC address and combinations thereof. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many other types of personally identifiable information indicative of a visitor may likewise be utilized in accordance with the present invention.

In some embodiments the web server may be adapted to gather ambient data by examining other types of data associated with a web browser such as a cookie or window.name data associated with a web browser session. If the cookie includes a third party cookie the web browser may expose a wider range of ambient data unrelated to specific interactions between the web page and the visitor. As such third party cookies may include web analytics indicative of each web page the visitor has accessed.

The web browser may likewise be utilized to determine ambient data via one or more additional methods. For example the web page may include one or more web forms that are adapted to receive information from the visitor. In other embodiments the web browser may utilize a query string embedded in a uniform resource locator URL associated with the web page along with hyper text transfer protocol authentication information for visitors who are required to log on to the web page for access and combinations thereof.

Ambient data may be determined by one or more of the web analytics methods described above and then provided to a third party source utilized by the provider associated with the web page. Common third party sources may include a visitor relationship management CRM application.

In additional embodiments the ambient data framework may be utilized to incorporate ambient data gathered from a web browser or a client device with specific ambient data incorporated from a marketing ecosystem not shown associated with a particular provider e.g. the entity associated with the web content . The term ecosystem will be understood to include one or more third party sources that may be accessed by the ambient data framework to locate specific ambient data associated with a particular visitor requesting one or more web content.

According to some embodiments the ambient data framework may be adapted to interface with various types of third party sources that provide information of interest to the visitor such as weather related data geolocation data and the like. This information may be utilized by the ambient data framework to selectively modify the content of the web content to include personalized weather information or location specific event information along with targeted advertisements based upon the previous commercial transaction data or web analytics associated with the visitor.

The ambient data framework may be adapted to effectively operate on a granular level by interfacing with third party sources such as the CRM system. The ambient data framework may utilize highly specific ambient data such as previous commercial transaction data from a CRM system to modify the web content before the web content is delivered to the client device . As such the ambient data framework may customize the web content to suit the preferences of individual visitors within their database.

Moreover the ambient data framework may operate according to varying levels of granularity. For example the ambient data framework may be adapted to modify the content of the web pages for individual visitors or may modify the content of the web pages for groups of visitors or an aggregate profile of an amount of visitors that request the web content.

Referring now to collectively according to some embodiments the ambient data framework may be generally described as including a runtime module adapted to interface the ambient data framework with at least one of Java Servlet third party sources and ASP.NET e.g. web services enabled third party sources represented by web application web services containers A and B respectively. The web content management application may A may receive ambient data from the ambient data framework assembled by the runtime module that may be utilized as content to generate web content. It will be understood that although the web application containers A and B have been described as being separate container one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the data from third party data sources such as web applications web enabled services and the like may be combined into a single third party source container.

The runtime module may be adapted to abstract the hosting environment of the web server e.g. containers A and B life cycle projection data and security infrastructure toward the ambient data framework . Moreover the runtime module may be adapted to capture an ambient data set from the request received from the client device . For example ambient data may be gathered from at least one of visitor authorization attributes e.g. username password etc. request and or session data provided by the web services web application containers A and B along with previous ambient data gathered from previous request s by the same visitor.

It will be understood that the terms life cycle may include a visitor centric approach to determining ambient data. Life cycle analytics may join together disparate web analytics into a cohesive visitor profile that may provide marketers with the ability to optimize their web content. It is noteworthy that a life cycle may include aggregate analytics such as page views clicks and other events described in greater detail above. Life cycle analytics are tied to discrete visitors instead of being stored as raw ambient data.

In some embodiments the life cycle data utilized by the runtime module may include stages such as session start request start and request end. It is contemplated that the runtime module may collect life cycle data in a fashion that is agnostic to the specific web services web application containers e.g. A and B being utilized by the runtime module . That is the runtime module may collect life cycle data that may be utilized with web application container e.g. A and B that utilize a variety of data formats.

Generally speaking the runtime module may be adapted to capture ambient data that may be associated with the web request received from the web browser of the client device . Ambient data may be gather from web session data of the web browser or another application involved in generating a request for the web content such as mobile agent device visitor content affiliate and an external application just to name a few.

The runtime module may utilize one or more claims processors A E see that may enrich already captured ambient data with additional or derived ambient data and or ambient data gathered from external data sources such as third party sources. The claims processors A E may be adapted to expose already captured ambient data to external data sinks or drive third party sources based on captured ambient data and or projected visitor life cycle stage relative to the visitor interaction with the web content.

The runtime module may also facilitate hyper text transfer protocols HTTP S end point protection i.e. extensible with out of the box OOB implementation based on OAuth 2.0 authorization standard authorization attributes i.e. extensible with OOB implementation based on Simple Web Token along with visitor tracking and web browser session management functionalities. While the runtime module has been disclosed as utilizing OAuth 2.0 authorization it will be understood that the runtime module may include any other suitable methods or standards for authorizing data over a network connection.

Moreover the runtime module may include a claims engine adapted to protect claim values generated by the claims processors A E from modification. It will be understood that claim values may include ambient data such as web browser authorization attributes. Moreover the runtime module may include claim providers that utilize deterministic life cycle projections e.g. request start and or end data session start data etc. . Additionally the ambient data framework may utilize in context access to ambient data through Java Servlets and .NET application programming interfaces associated with third party sources although one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the ambient data framework may be adapted to receive data from additional third party sources having other data formats server runtime configurations e.g. PHP RubyOnRails and so forth and the like. In exemplary embodiments the Ambient Servlet Filter in is for Java Servlet based web application containers and the HTTP Module in is for ASP.NET based web application containers. The application programming interface may be made available to one or more of the claims processors A E program libraries not shown hosted in the web services web application containers A and B or a third party web based application or a web service enabled third party source via .NET functionalities.

In some embodiments the claims processors A E may function as claim providers claim consumers and in some applications both. Each of the claims processors A E may implement a predefined application programming interface that enables the runtime module to at least one of initialize one or more of the claims processors A E and invoke the initialized claims processors A E to consume existing ambient data and or provide additional types of ambient data.

The data exchange adapters A N may provide the ambient data framework with an ability to package and deploy a set of claims processors selected from the claims processors A E. It will be understood that the data exchange adapters A N may also be referred to as cartridges. The data exchange adapters A N may contain metadata for each of the initialized claims processors A E. The metadata may describe the input claims the claims processors A E depend on if any and output claims that the claims processors A E provide if any . The inclusion of metadata may allow the ambient data framework to invoke individual claims processors A E in the correct order to establish a claims pipeline see .

Non limiting examples of classes of claims processors A E may include claims processors that have no input dependencies but may generate one or more output claims. For example a claim processor may provide data such as server time and date. Other claims processors may have one or more input dependencies and one or more output claims. For example a claim processor may receive input such as visitor identification that may be output as a name or an e mail address that may be retrieved from at least one third party source e.g. email server .

Other claims processors may receive input such as one or more input claim dependencies by generate no output claims. For example a claim processor may receive input such as visitor preferences that are stored to an external data source such as a database associated with the CM environment B. In yet other embodiments claims processors may receive no input claim dependencies and generate no output claims. By way of example a claim processor may drive an external sub system based on life cycle data e.g. request start request end such as a third party tracking sub system.

It will be understood that the scope of a claim processor may be indicative of a lifespan within which the ambient data is valid. This provides context to how the ambient data may be handled. Therefore determining a scope allows for optimal use of memory and processing power i.e. if claims with session scope may be cached by the web application container being utilized . Moreover re evaluation of the ambient data may not be required unless the input claim dependency of the claims processors A E is modified. In some embodiments the runtime module may be adapted to utilize claims processors A E that may include a transitive scope e.g. lifespan from one browser request to the next browser request .

In sum the ambient data framework may be adapted to protect HTTP S end points and derive authorization attributes. The authorization attributes may pertain to a third party source and its owner a visitor a content resource owner and combinations thereof. Additionally the ambient data framework may utilize session life cycle stage projections that are agnostic to the hosting web services web application containers A and B. In some embodiments the ambient data framework may include provisions for tracking and session management of web browsers utilized by visitors. It will be understood that tracking may be utilized to identify return visitors. In other embodiments session identification functions allow the ambient data framework to group subsequent requests that constitute a single visitor engagement life cycle .

Additionally the ambient data framework may be adapted to identify the origin of third party source data by utilizing multiple processing cluster and or location scenarios. In some instances the ambient data framework may allow at least one of individuals implementing the web content independent vendors and independent service providers to enrich ambient data by providing additional functionality to the web content. Moreover these added functionalities may be included in web content in the form of web applications and or web services enabled applications. These added functionalities may be incorporated into the web content without the need to modify the core content of the web content.

Referring now to a process flow may generally include a first claims pipeline a second claims pipeline and a claims store . As described with regard to the session life cycle stage projection for each of the three distinct stages e.g. session start request start request end the runtime module may establish and invoke the process flow that includes the first claims pipeline and the second claims pipeline . The first claims pipeline may include both the session start pipeline that may be executed only once per detected session before execution of the first request start pipeline.

On the web server the processing of a web page or web service data request may be enveloped by a request start end pipeline pair e.g. may be preceded with a session start pipeline invocation before the first request start pipeline in a given session . Enclosed between executions of these pipelines the actual implementation and or handler for the web request is executed.

It will be understood that claims processors A E in the session start or request start stages may be allowed to provide ambient data to the claims store by possibly invoking external data sources and or invoking external sub systems e.g. third party sources . The claims processors A E in the request end stage are able to store ambient data in external data sources such as the database associated with the CM environment E and or invoke external sub systems.

The metadata exposed by the data exchange adapters A N may describe claim processor A E dependencies on input claims and any known output claims that other claims processors A E may depend upon. The ambient data framework may inspect these inputs and outputs as well as claim scope to determine the order in which individual claims processors A E should be invoked. Claims processors A E that may not dependent on input claims may be placed in the first or second pipelines or in an arbitrary position.

The web page web services containers A and B e.g. third party sources associated with the ambient data framework may include at least one of web based applications web service logic run time and or program libraries hosted in the web application containers A and B.

The method may include the step of evaluating via the web server ambient data included in the request and ambient data from at least one third party source and the step of storing the ambient data in a database. In other embodiments the method may include the step of selectively modifying content included in the web content based upon the ambient data.

According to some embodiments the method may include the step of providing the modified web content to the web server which then provides the content to the client device.

In many instances the geolocation of a visitor may be derived from the Internet protocol IP address where a web request originates typically the location of the client device or directly from the geolocation data provided by a mobile client device . In this example the runtime module may utilize one claim processor A that may select the origin IP or position coordinates from the ambient data framework and connect to a third party source that includes weather service data to retrieve current weather conditions. The weather conditions would be added to the ambient data. The web content management application A may include the weather data along with additional specific promotions content banners and links that are related to the weather data. The web content management application A may include the combined data in the web content e.g. web page that is provided to the mobile client device .

In an additional example the web page may include offers such as promotions for family activities generated by the runtime module . As such ambient data indicative of both geolocation and weather data may be utilized to select appropriate family activities that are displayed on the web page. For example the runtime module may decide whether to gather indoor and or outdoor family activities proximate the geographical location associated with the visitor.

It will be understood that the runtime module begins the analysis with only one claims processor A that located geolocation information such as an IP address or coordinates. Additional claims processors may depend from the claims processor A and may add extra ambient data to the database . For example the claims processor A that obtains an IP address may initiate a second claims processor B that locates the actual coordinates i.e. longitude and latitude . The second claims processor B may initiate a third claims processor C that locates weather data.

Finally the runtime module aggregates the relevant output from the claims processors A C that is utilized by the web content management application A to produce web content in the form of a web page that includes relevant links banners and the like.

The ambient data framework may be adapted to provide visitor tracking functionalities which enables the ambient data framework to identify return visitors. For example return visitors might be identified based upon on explicit login authentication information provided by the visitor. In both instances the identified user identity may be utilized to gather explicit visitor preferences. In some embodiments these preferences may have been established in a previous session. In these cases the web content management application A might incorporate specific content such as promotions content banners and links based on the explicit preferences or redirect the visitor to another specified landing page.

It will be understood that the runtime module begins the analysis with only one claims processor A that obtains visitor identification data. Additional claims processors may depend from the claims processor A and may add extra ambient data to the database . For example the claims processor A that obtains visitor identification data may initiate a second claims processor B that locates the explicit preferences from at least one third party source such as a CRM system. The second claims processor B may initiate a third claims processor C to obtain marketing products such as banners links and the like.

Finally the runtime module aggregates the relevant output from the claims processors A C that is utilized by the web content management application A to produce web content in the form of a web page that includes relevant links banners and the like.

The components shown in are depicted as being connected via a single bus . The components may be connected through one or more data transport means. Processor unit and main memory may be connected via a local microprocessor bus and the mass storage device peripheral device s portable storage device and display system may be connected via one or more input output I O buses.

Mass storage device which may be implemented with a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive is a non volatile storage device for storing data and instructions for use by processor unit . Mass storage device can store the system software for implementing embodiments of the present invention for purposes of loading that software into main memory .

Portable storage device operates in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a floppy disk compact disk or Digital video disc to input and output data and code to and from the computer system of . The system software for implementing embodiments of the present invention may be stored on such a portable medium and input to the computer system via the portable storage device .

Input devices provide a portion of a user interface. Input devices may include an alphanumeric keypad such as a keyboard for inputting alphanumeric and other information or a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball stylus or cursor direction keys. Additionally the system as shown in includes output devices . Suitable output devices include speakers printers network interfaces and monitors.

Display system may include a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. Display system receives textual and graphical information and processes the information for output to the display device.

Peripherals may include any type of computer support device to add additional functionality to the computer system. Peripheral device s may include a modem or a router.

The components contained in the computer system of are those typically found in computer systems that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the present invention and are intended to represent a broad category of such computer components that are well known in the art. Thus the computer system of can be a personal computer hand held computing system telephone mobile computing system workstation server minicomputer mainframe computer or any other computing system. The computer can also include different bus configurations networked platforms multi processor platforms etc. Various operating systems can be used including UNIX Linux Windows Macintosh OS Palm OS and other suitable operating systems.

Some of the above described functions may be composed of instructions that are stored on storage media e.g. computer readable medium . The instructions may be retrieved and executed by the processor. Some examples of storage media are memory devices tapes disks and the like. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accord with the invention. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions processor s and storage media.

It is noteworthy that any hardware platform suitable for performing the processing described herein is suitable for use with the invention. The terms computer readable storage medium and computer readable storage media as used herein refer to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to a CPU for execution. Such media can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as a fixed disk. Volatile media include dynamic memory such as system RAM. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics among others including the wires that comprise one embodiment of a bus. Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical medium any other physical medium with patterns of marks or holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM a FLASHEPROM any other memory chip or data exchange adapter a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a CPU for execution. A bus carries the data to system RAM from which a CPU retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by system RAM can optionally be stored on a fixed disk either before or after execution by a CPU.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon review of this disclosure. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

