---

title: Method and apparatus for measuring near-angle scattering of mirror coatings
abstract: Disclosed herein is a method of determining the near angle scattering of a sample reflective surface comprising the steps of: a) splitting a beam of light having a coherence length of greater than or equal to about 2 meters into a sample beam and a reference beam; b) frequency shifting both the sample beam and the reference beam to produce a fixed beat frequency between the sample beam and the reference beam; c) directing the sample beam through a focusing lens and onto the sample reflective surface, d) reflecting the sample beam from the sample reflective surface through a detection restriction disposed on a movable stage; e) recombining the sample beam with the reference beam to form a recombined beam, followed by f) directing the recombined beam to a detector and performing heterodyne analysis on the recombined beam to measure the near-angle scattering of the sample reflective surface, wherein the position of the detection restriction relative to the sample beam is varied to occlude at least a portion of the sample beam to measure the near-angle scattering of the sample reflective surface. An apparatus according to the above method is also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08502987&OS=08502987&RS=08502987
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 08502987
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110201
---
The invention described hereunder was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. 202 in which the Contractor has elected not to retain title.

The present invention relates generally to the fields of optics and characterization of reflective surfaces. Specifically it concerns an apparatus for determining the near angle scattering of a sample reflective surface and a method of determining the near angle scattering of a sample reflective surface using optical heterodyne detection.

The metallic coatings of reflective surfaces e.g. mirrors are known to have anisotropic structures that result in polarization dependent scattering behavior. These effects arc evident as small perturbations of the point spread function PSF known as near angle scattering. For purposes herein near angle scattering is defined as scattering determined at less then 10 from the centroid of the point spread function also referred to herein as the specular reflection peak.

In addition to contributions from mirror coatings small amounts of scattering from lenses mounts and or other elements in an optical train may cause the specular peak to grow in angular extent. This combination of factors entirely overwhelms the ability to determine the near angle scatter from a mirror sample using current methods and practices.

The Bidirectional Reflective or Scattering Distribution Function is currently measured through use of a scattering goniometer instrument referred to in the art as a scatterometer. The instrumental beam width collection angle span over which a typical scatterometer responds is at least 10 often greater then about 20 from the centroid of the point spread function. The difficulty of measuring scattering properties of coated mirrors extremely close to the specular reflection peak thus necessitates a new measurement approach.

Metallic mirror coatings have long been known to be mildly anisotropic due to the columnar nature of the metal deposition i.e. the reflective coating. See for example J. Breckinridge and B. Oppenheimer Polarization Effects in Reflecting Coronagraphs for White Light Applications in Astronomy 600 Jan. 10 2004 pp. 1091 1098.

This anisotropy and its variation over a mirror surface will to some degree affect the scattering properties and PSF properties of the mirror. However the terrestrial planet finder TPF optical system concepts currently under development require extremely small amounts of scatter at angles very near to the specular beam in order to separate the light of bright stars from that of dim orbiting planets. This is also true in a variety of technologies including telecommunications analytical measurements and the like which utilize various forms of reflective surfaces to function. Measuring the polarization dependent mirror scattering properties is important to quantify the effects of surface coatings on the reflected light and to provide metrology technology for optimizing mirror coatings for the TPF and other instruments and applications affected by near angle scattering.

Disclosures directed to characterizing reflective surfaces include U.S. Pat. No. 6 403 966 to Oka Oka which is generally directed to a measurement method and a measurement apparatus for measuring the structure of a micro structure or the structure along the depth of an object for measurement. The laser light from a solid state laser light source is subjected to wavelength conversion to generate the ultraviolet laser light and measurement is made of the object for measurement by heterodyne detection or homodyne detection employing the ultraviolet laser light. This enables measurement of the micro structure of the sample. Alternatively the laser light is split into multiple laser light beams and frequency shifted so that the laser light beams will be of different frequencies. The laser light beams are imaged at respective different focal point positions to perform heterodyne detection. The resulting heterodyne signals are separated into respective frequency bands and measurement is made of the structure of the object for measurement in association with the respective imaging points. This enables measurement of the structure of the object for measurement in the direction along its depth. Oka is directed to an apparatus and a method in which the sample being analyzed is moved within the light beam to measure surface characteristics of the sample. However this approach does not allow for measurement and characterization of near angle scattering of a mirror surface.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 477 319 to Shimonaka et al. Shimonaka is generally directed to an optical heterodyne detection method of detecting a beat signal by heterodyne detection using a superimposition of two or more beams of light including a signal beam and a reference beam. Shimonaka discloses optical heterodyne detection of scattered light but fails to provide any disclosure or suggestion directed to an instrument or method capable of measuring near angle scatter of a mirror.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 883 714 to Jann et al. Jann is generally directed to a non contact optical inspection instrument and method for measuring the height and width of defects and contaminants on a magnetic disk surface. The instrument includes a sensor which produces an illumination beam that is modulated and then focused normally on the disk surface as a spot. The illumination spot is Doppler shifted due to the movement of the disk and the diffusely reflected light is interfered with a reference beam produced by the sensor s illumination optics. Jann discloses utilizing scattered light in an optical detection method however Jann fails to provide any disclosure or suggestion directed to an instrument or method capable of measuring near angle scatter of a mirror.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 879 402 to Kuchel and its continuation in part U.S. Pat. No. 6 972 849 and its continuation in part U.S. Pat. No. 7 218 403 collectively referred to as Kuchel are generally directed to interferometric scanning method s and apparatus for measuring optics either having aspherical surfaces or that produce aspherical wavefronts. In the disclosures a test optic is aligned and moved with respect to a scanning axis relative to the origin of a known spherical wavefront that is generated with a reference surface to intersect the test optic at the apex of the aspherical surface and at radial zones where the spherical wavefront and the aspheric surface possess common tangents. The test surface is imaged onto a space resolving detector to form interferograms containing phase information about the differences in optical path length between the reference surface and the test surface while the axial distance which the test optic moves relative to the spherical reference surface is interferometrically measured. Kuchel discloses an apparatus and a method in which the sample being analyzed is moved within the light beam to measure surface characteristics of the sample. However Kuchel fails to disclose or suggest a method of measuring near angle scattering.

U.S. Patent Publication No. 20080030742 to Hill Hill is generally directed to an apparatus and method for in situ and ex situ measurement of spatial impulse response of an optical system using phase shilling point diffraction interferometry. Hill discloses a test object including an arrangement of optical elements defining a first partially reflecting surface and a second partially reflecting surface at least one of the first and second partially reflecting surfaces being curved wherein the first partially reflecting surface is arranged to receive a substantially collimated input beam and produce therefrom a first transmitted beam that passes on to the second partially reflecting surface wherein the second partially reflecting surface is arranged to receive the first transmitted beam from the first partially reflecting surface and produce a collimated second transmitted beam and a first reflected beam therefrom wherein the first partially reflecting surface is arranged to receive the first reflected beam and produce a second reflected beam therefrom and wherein the first and second reflecting surfaces are configured to cause the second reflecting beam to converge onto a spot on a back surface to produce a diverging beam traveling in the same direction as the collimated output beam. However Hill fails to disclose or suggest a method of measuring near angle scattering.

Other references of interest include J. Breckinridge and B. Oppenheimer Polarization Effects in Reflecting Coronagraphs for White Light Applications in Astronomy 600 Jan 10 2004 pp. 1091 1098 and B. Devaraj M. Takeda M. Kobayashi M. Usa and K. P. Chan In vivo laser computed tomographic imaging of human fingers by coherent detection imaging method using different wavelengths in near infrared region 69 1996 pp. 3671 3673.

Accordingly a method and apparatus capable of measuring near angle scattering is a long felt need in the art. An apparatus and a method have been discovered which are capable of measuring near angle scattering using coherent heterodyne detection to enable very low noise scattering measurements of reflective coatings and other surfaces.

In one aspect of the present invention a method of determining the near angle scattering of a sample reflective surface comprises the steps of 

In another aspect of the present invention an apparatus to measure the near angle scattering of a sample reflective surface comprises 

The foregoing has outlined the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention.

The following detailed description is of the best currently contemplated modes of carrying out the invention. The description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention since the scope of the invention is best defined by the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances well known devices have been shown in block diagram form in order not to obscure the present invention in unnecessary detail. For the most part details unnecessary to obtain a complete understanding of the present invention have been omitted in as much as such details are within the skills of persons of ordinary skill in the relevant art.

In keeping with long standing patent law convention the words a and an when used in the present specification in concert with the word comprising including the claims denote one or more. Description in which the term comprising is used may also include more limiting embodiments such as consisting essentially of and consisting of . The term comprising is used herein for brevity.

Broadly the present invention generally provides a method and an apparatus to measure the near angle scattering of a sample reflective surface. The instrument utilizes optical heterodyne detection to measure the near angle scattering of mirrors and or other reflective surfaces. An embodiment of the Optical Heterodyne Near angle Scatterometer OHMS according to the instant disclosure comprises 

Turning now to the Figures shows an embodiment of the Optical Heterodyne Near angle Scatterometer also referred to as the OHNS in block diagram format. The OHNS includes a beam of light having a coherence length of greater than or equal to about 1 meter which is directed through a beam splitter to produce a sample beam and a reference beam . The sample beam is then directed through a sample frequency shifting means and the reference beam is simultaneously directed through a reference frequency shifting means to produce a fixed beat frequency between sample beam and reference beam . The fixed beat frequency between sample beam and reference beam is consistent with heterodyne detection principles and practice as known to one of skill in the art. Sample beam is then directed through one or more focusing lenses which focus sample beam on the detection restriction while illuminating the sample reflective surface . Sample beam is then reflected from sample reflective surface through a detection restriction disposed on a movable stage . Movable stage is capable of x y translation. Sample beam is then recombined with reference beam using a recombination means to produce a recombined beam . Recombined beam is then directed onto a photo detector in electronic communication with detector system to produce a signal representative of recombined beam .

Detector system includes means for performing heterodyne analysis on the detector signal produced by recombined beam to measure the near angle scattering of sample reflective surface . To obtain the near angle scattering of sample reflective surface the position of detection restriction relative to sample beam is dimensioned and arranged to be varied to occlude at least a portion of sample beam passing through detection restriction which is subsequently recombined with reference beam to produce recombined beam to measure the near angle scattering of sample reflective surface .

It is to be understood that each time sample beam and or reference beam passes through a component of the optical heterodyne near angle scatterometer the characteristics of the light beam are changed in some fashion. However for purposes herein sample beam and reference beam have been labeled consistently as such regardless of the effect a particular component or the sample reflective surface may have on the properties of sample beam or reference beam in order to clarify the path taken by sample beam and reference beam while characterizing and or determining the near angle scattering of sample reflective surface .

The near angle scattering of sample reflective surface is determined by varying the position of detection restriction relative to sample beam such that at least a portion of sample beam reflected from sample reflective surface is occluded prior to being recombined with reference beam . Detector system then generates a signal representative of recombined beam . Heterodyne analysis is then performed on the detector signal produced by recombined beam to measure the near angle scattering of sample reflective surface .

In an embodiment sample reflective surface is mounted on a variable position sample mount which may be held in a constant position while raster scanning the position of detection restriction relative to sample beam is performed. In an embodiment variable position sample mount may be varied such that the position of sample reflective surface is varied separately or in tandem with raster scanning of detection restriction relative to sample beam to characterize sample reflective surface .

In an embodiment beam of light is produced using a laser . In a preferred embodiment beam of light has a coherence length of greater than or equal to about 2 meters preferably greater than or equal to about 10 meters preferably greater than or equal to about 50 meters preferably greater than or equal to about 100 meters more preferably greater than or equal to about 150 meters. In an embodiment beam of light is produced using a nm laser an ultra violet UV laser or the like.

In an embodiment sample frequency shifting means and or reference frequency shifting means each comprise an acousto optic modulator AOM also referred to in the art as a Bragg cell which uses the acousto optic effect to diffract and shift the frequency of light using sound waves. The properties of the sample beam and the reference beam exiting the AOM may be controlled using deflection intensity frequency phase and or polarization aspects of the AOM. In an embodiment sample frequency shifting means and or reference frequency shifting means each comprise an electro optic modulator to frequency shift the particular beam.

In an embodiment beam splitter splits beam of light into two equal portions such that the ratio of the intensity of sample beam to reference beam is about 1 1. In a preferred embodiment the ratio of the intensity of sample beam to reference beam is greater than or equal to about 60 40 preferably greater than or equal to about 70 30 preferably greater than or equal to about 80 20 with greater than or equal to about 90 10 being still more preferred. In an embodiment there is preferably enough light in the reference beam to achieve shot noise limited detection as is readily understood by one of minimal skill in the art. In an embodiment a laser having at least 15 mW power output is used preferable at least 50 mW with greater than or equal to 200 mW being still more preferred.

In an embodiment unwanted scattered light may be reduced using low scattering focusing lenses in the active path and or by using sample spatial filter system and reference spatial filter system to block scattered light from all of the elements prior to the focusing lens . This approach allows for removal of essentially all scattered light except for that produced by focusing lens . In an embodiment focusing lens is an uncoated highly polished focusing lens which produces a minimal amount of scattered light relative to the measurement of the near angle scattering of sample reflective surface .

It has been discovered that a relatively large spot of light may be directed to and reflected from sample reflective surface to better characterize the near angle scattering thereof. Accordingly focusing lens may have an f ratio of greater than or equal to about 30 preferably greater than or equal to about 50 preferably greater than or equal to about 100 preferably greater than or equal to about 200 preferably greater than or equal to about 300 preferably greater than or equal to about 400 with greater than or equal to about 500 being still more preferred.

In an embodiment detection restriction is a pinhole mounted on movable stage which is capable of x y translation. In an embodiment movable stage is in electronic communication shown in as Numbered Item with detector system such that raster scanning of sample beam is computer controlled. In an embodiment detection restriction has a fixed size through which at least a portion of sample beam reflected from sample reflective surface may pass. In an alternative embodiment detection restriction is variable in size and may be controlled by the detector system shown in as Numbered Item . By raster scanning detection restriction also referred to herein as a detection pinhole across the image plane formed by the reflected sample beam the OHNS is able to obtain an extremely high resolution image of the PSF. The OHNS is also able to obtain the highest possible contrast when scanning through the nulls of the PSF.

In an embodiment recombination means comprises a non polarizing beam splitter. Detector of detector system may include a Si photodiode or the like which is capable of generating an electronic or other signal representative of recombined beam . Detector system may also include a computer in electronic communication with the various components of the OHNS capable of being varied. In an embodiment detector system includes a spectrum analyzer which utilizes heterodyne detection to determine the near angle scattering of sample reflective surface . In an embodiment coherent detection is used to allow for measurements to be made with a very large dynamic range and high sensitivity. While non coherent detection is possible with the OHNS coherent detection is preferably due to the expectation that scattered light levels from telescope mirrors may be many orders of magnitude lower than specular light. However the type of detection utilized is dependent on the type of sample reflective surface and the wavelengths of the electromagnetic radiation being utilized.

In an embodiment the OHNS described herein is capable of measuring near angle scattered light levels which are less than or equal to about 10times below the intensity of the specular light. In an embodiment the detection system has a dynamic range of greater than or equal to about 140 dB and a noise equivalent power NEP of less than or equal to about 10W. In an embodiment the OHNS is capable of measuring the near angle scattering such that a first specular light ring is resolved from the point spread function at less than 1 from the centroid of the point spread function preferably less then or equal to about 100 arcseconds more preferably less than or equal to about 50 arcseconds more preferably less than or equal to about 40 arcseconds more preferably less than or equal to about 30 arcseconds more preferably less than or equal to about 20 arcseconds more preferably less than or equal to about 10 arcseconds from the centroid of the point spread function.

As shown in an embodiment of the OHNS may comprise polarization capability to characterize the polarization effects various coatings may have on sample reflective surface . Polarization control may be implemented by placing sample polarizer which is a generator polarizer before sample reflective surface and analyzer polarizer after detection pinhole . In an embodiment half wave plate is placed before sample polarizer to rotate the polarization state of sample beam emerging from laser to maximize transmission through sample polarizer when it is set at different angles. In an embodiment sample polarizer is set to illuminate sample reflective surface with either s or p polarized light so the effects of different types of illumination on sample reflective surface can be measured. In an embodiment the illumination state may be limited to s and p polarized light since the sample reflective surface is illuminated at a non zero angle and thus there would be polarization aberrations if other illumination states were used. In an embodiment analyzer polarizer may be rotated to be either parallel too or perpendicular with the orientation of sample polarizer to measure the cross coupled polarization cause by light interaction with the sample reflective surface e.g. a metallic mirror coating. In an embodiment a reference polarizer may be set to produce reference beam oriented at an angle of about 45 to produce a reference beam having an equal amount of vertical and horizontal polarized light to interfere with the sample beam . In another embodiment reference polarizer may be set to produce reference beam oriented at an angle of greater than or equal 0 and less than or equal to about 45 relative to sample beam . In yet another embodiment sample polarizer and reference polarizer may be rotated such that when reference beam and sample beam are recombined both beams will have the same polarization.

A sample designed to display oblique columnar microstructure was fabricated and measured. The sample was fabricated by applying a silver coating to one side of an interference flat with a 45 deposition angle. During the analysis and measurement the samples were oriented relative to the orientation of the deposition angle. The first set of cross polarized data taken of the anisotropic sample is shown in wherein 

Accordingly shows the point spread function of the sample oriented in the downward orientation x cross section 

The data shown in is similar to that in but the sample is oriented with the columnar microstructure facing up or down instead of right or left. The asymmetry seen in is not present in . The plots in are approximately symmetric and do not display a significant sample orientation based difference. These results suggest that there is more effect when the coating anisotropy is aligned in the direction of the electric field of a polarized beam than when it is normal to the direction of polarization.

The data shown in may be further de convoluted to allow for a 2D scattered light plot from 2D measurements. As shown in the scattered light is measured directly in the nulls of the PSF.

The new measurement system described herein using coherent optical detection methods for the measurement of near angle scattered light shows the utility of this measurement method for mirror samples. As the results show the method and apparatus described herein is able to accurately measure the PSF of light reflected from a metallic mirror coating. The results also showed evidence of anisotropic polarization effects caused by reflection from anisotropic columnar microstructure found in metallic mirror coatings a result previously speculated to exist yet until now beyond the ability of known systems to measure.

Accordingly the data shows that the OHNS is capable of measuring near angle light scattering of the sample mirror at less than 100 arcseconds light that would otherwise have been obscured using conventional means known in the art.

All patents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the level of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. All patents and publications are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

It should be understood of course that the foregoing relates to preferred embodiments of the invention and that modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims.

