---

title: Vehicle information system with customizable user interface
abstract: In accordance with one embodiment, an information system located within a vehicle includes a data storage device configured to store programmed instructions to implement a web browser, a data communication module, and a controller operatively coupled to the data storage device, and the data communication module, the controller configured to execute the web browser to receive a plurality of data elements, identify a respective content type for each of the plurality of data elements, assign a relevance level to each of the plurality of data elements based on the respective identified content type, compare the assigned relevance to a predetermined relevance threshold; and generate a user interface using at least one of the plurality of data elements based upon the comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08688320&OS=08688320&RS=08688320
owner: Robert Bosch GmbH
number: 08688320
owner_city: Stuttgart
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20110111
---
This application relates generally to information and entertainment systems used in vehicles and more particularly to vehicular information systems that use a web application framework.

Information and entertainment systems incorporated into vehicles are well known in the art. Information systems include components that provide information about the operating condition of the vehicle. Common examples of information systems include dashboards in motorized ground vehicles instrument panels in aircraft and various gauges and instruments in boats and other sea craft. In many embodiments the information system provides information from various sensors and gauges including but not limited to speed tachometer readings fuel levels engine temperature readings oil pressure readings electrical system voltage levels and the like. More recently developed information devices include in vehicle navigation systems that use the global positioning system GPS to provide a vehicle operator with navigational aids and cameras that display video of areas around the vehicle that are otherwise obscured from the view of the operator.

In addition to information systems many vehicles also include entertainment systems. Common examples of in vehicle entertainment systems include radios cassette and compact disc CD players digital music players and video playback devices. The entertainment systems may have various operating modes with some devices like radios and audio devices being operational when the vehicle is in operation while video playback devices may operate only when the vehicle is not in operation to prevent distracting the operator.

An infotainment system refers to a category of information system that combines both information and entertainment systems in a vehicle. An infotainment system may include various discrete components that are installed in a vehicle but are otherwise disconnected from one another such as a speedometer and a radio in a conventional automobile. More recently advances in computing and display technology have enabled so called glass cockpit systems that may display a combined view of data from multiple sources on an electronic display device. The term glass cockpit originated in the field of aviation but similar devices have spread to many vehicles including ground and water vehicles. Integrated infotainment systems may provide at least some vehicle information and entertainment information using a common user interface. Examples include dashboard display panels that display a digital map for navigation in one mode while displaying music information in another mode. Audio devices including speakers in a vehicle may play music and audible alerts to the operator from various information systems.

Infotainment systems may send and receive data using various digital networks including the Internet using one or more wireless network connection technologies including the IEEE 802.11 family of protocols and various wide area networks using 3G and 4G technologies. The network connectivity enables communication between the vehicle and various computing systems on the Internet in general and with the World Wide Web WWW in particular. Additionally these systems may communicate directly with an electronic device placed in the vehicle using a wired communication port or a wireless communication channel.

Known vehicular information and infotainment systems have many features but also present many design and user interface challenges. Many variations in hardware and software components exist between different types of vehicles and even between different models of a single vehicle such as different option packages for a single car model. Consequently information systems for different vehicles vary widely with little standardization or compatibility between systems. Additionally different information systems present information in widely different formats that increase the time needed for a vehicle operator to become accustomed to the information system.

What is needed is an information system that provides information and entertainment to operators of a plurality of vehicles having different components and operating configurations. What is further needed is an information system that provides a common user interface to a vehicle operator in different vehicles.

In accordance with one embodiment an information system located within a vehicle includes a data storage device configured to store programmed instructions to implement a web browser a data communication module and a controller operatively coupled to the data storage device and the data communication module the controller configured to execute the web browser to receive a plurality of data elements identify a respective content type for each of the plurality of data elements assign a relevance level to each of the plurality of data elements based on the respective identified content type compare the assigned relevance to a predetermined relevance threshold and generate a user interface using at least one of the plurality of data elements based upon the comparison.

In a further embodiment an information system located within a vehicle includes a data storage device configured to store programmed instructions to implement a web browser at least one vehicle sensor configured to generate a signal corresponding to at least one operating condition of the vehicle a data communication module and a controller operatively coupled to the data storage device the at least one vehicle sensor and the data communication module. The controller is configured to implement a web browser implement a software module configured to receive data generated by the at least one vehicle sensor in a first format identify the at least one vehicle sensor based on the data received in the first format and to generate a data record corresponding to the vehicle sensor data in a second format receive data corresponding to a web application using the data communication module operate the web browser to execute the web application and provide the data record corresponding to the vehicle sensor data in the second format to the web application.

For a general understanding of the details for the systems and processes disclosed herein the drawings are referenced throughout this document. In the drawings like reference numerals designate like elements. The term vehicle as used herein refers to any motorized vehicle including but not limited to cars trucks sport utility vehicles SUVs motorcycles mopeds aircraft boats personal watercraft and the like. This includes vehicles that operate using various drive systems including but not limited to internal combustion engines electric motors hybrid drive train systems jet engines turbines and the like.

The term user interface refers to the components and processes used by an in vehicle information system to present information to one or more occupants or users in the vehicle. The user interface also enables users to control the information system. User interfaces may present information to users in various formats including graphics text audible messages and haptic feedback. The user may control the user interface using multiple techniques including mechanical controls voice controls touch screen interfaces and the like.

As used herein the terms web app and web application are interchangeable and refer to a client server arrangement where a client typically a web browser or other application configured to use the Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP requests data from a server typically a web server. Unlike a traditional web client server configuration where a client requests data only for presentation the web app client includes a code execution engine typically embodied as a JavaScript interpreter that enables the client to execute a downloaded program on the same computing device hosting the client software.

In a typical embodiment a web app client downloads executable code also referred to as the application from a web server along with data corresponding to the application. In common web applications the executable code consists of one or more scripts written in a scripting language such as JavaScript although any code that may be executed within the web browser or a web browser plugin such as the Flash or Java plugins may execute code as well. The data corresponding to the application may include text formatted data including the Hyper Text Markup Language HTML and Extensible Markup Language XML formats or may be in binary coded format including image video and audio data. A single web browser may execute one or more web apps in conjunction with one or more servers and some existing web apps also present data retrieved from multiple unrelated web servers.

During operation the web app client may generate a user interface and take actions in response to user input. In some web app embodiments the web app client requests data from the server during execution. The web app may make requests asynchronously while continuing to display a user interface using methods such as the Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX method. When data are received in an XML format the Extensible Style Sheet Language XSLT may be used to generate a document in HTML format using structured XML data as an input.

The web app client may alter the layout and presentation of data using one or more presentation transformation tools including Cascading Style Sheets CSS . A cascading style sheet is a set of configuration data that specifies one or more rules that define how the web app client should present information. Each rule receives a precedence weighting and in instances where multiple rules conflict the web app follows the rule with the highest precedence. The CSS standards enable the web client to selectively display data and to alter the color size fonts and positions of displayed data. The CSS standards include non visual presentations of data and enable a web client to convert received data to synthesized speech and to haptic feedback.

RAM may be embodied by any memory device that enables controller to load and store data from the memory device in a random access. Example embodiments include dynamic RAM DRAM and static RAM SRAM . RAM is operatively coupled to the controller and controller may load and store program instructions and data in the RAM . In a typical embodiment RAM is volatile meaning that contents of the RAM are erased in the absence of electric power.

Non volatile data storage device may be implemented as a hard drive solid state drive or as any digital storage device that is configured to retain data in the absence of externally supplied electrical power. Data storage device is operatively coupled the controller . Data storage device reads stored data and provides the data to the controller and writes data in response to a write command from the controller . The data storage device is configured to hold one or more stored programs and stored data . Stored programs include executable code to implement an operating system and one or more user space programs that execute within the operating system. Exemplary user space programs include web browsers and web servers.

Stored data include various data files for use by one or more stored programs in operation. The stored data contain one or more sets of configuration data that define the format of user interfaces for the programs in the stored program data . The configuration data may include CSS and XSLT files that define rules for generating a user interface. One embodiment of data storage device includes multiple data storage devices where one data storage device is fixedly installed in the vehicle and holds the program data while a second data storage device holding data is configured to be connected to and removed from the vehicle .

Display includes at least one visual display device such as a liquid crystal display LCD organic light emitting diode OLED display or projection device. Different vehicle configurations may include one or more display devices at various locations in the vehicle including heads up displays that project an image in front of the operator when operating the vehicle . The controller is operatively coupled to the display device and generates signals corresponding to text and graphics for display on or by the display device . The display device converts the generated signals into visual output.

Audio output typically includes one or more audio speakers that are operatively coupled to the controller . The audio output may include various filters and amplifiers for processing of audio signals prior to output. The controller generates one or more audio signals for the audio output including audio and music received from the RF receiver or held in stored data . Audio output also emits sounds corresponding to synthetic speech signals that the controller generates during operation.

Haptic output includes one or more tactile feedback devices positioned in the vehicle and operatively coupled to the controller . The haptic output generates a feedback force that provides feedback to the operator of the vehicle . Common examples of haptic feedback devices include servos and actuators that are operatively coupled to the steering wheel accelerator pedal and brake pedal in an automobile. Various haptic devices may be placed on different control devices in different vehicles including in the yoke of an aircraft and handlebars of a motorcycle. Various types of feedback force include vibration or a hysteresis force that resists movement applied by the operator.

Input devices are configured to generate signals in response to a user action and to provide the generated signals to the controller . Various types of input device include but are not limited to buttons knobs dials switches sliders keypads touch screen devices and audio input devices. In particular the display device may include a touch screen interface that enables an operator to touch one or more sections of the display to input commands. Audio output may be coupled with an input device in the form of a microphone that routes audible commands to the controller and the controller may implement a voice recognition system to identify the spoken commands. The controller is configured to take one or more actions in response to receiving generated signals from the input devices . The controller may take different actions for a signal generated by the same input device in response to the operating state of the information system at the time the signal is generated. For example a dial may be used to adjust the volume level of music when the controller presents a music application to the operator while the same dial may be used to adjust a temperature level for a climate control system in a different operating context.

RF receiver is configured to receive radio frequency emissions using various modulation techniques on different frequencies. Common examples include analog AM and FM radio terrestrial digital radio satellite radio as well as terrestrial and satellite video transmissions. The controller may be configured to decode data received from the RF receiver and to generate corresponding video and audio signals for the display and audio output respectively. In an alternative configuration the RF receiver may generate signals for the display and audio output directly and may provide metadata to the controller . Various forms of metadata include audio and video titles artist information play lengths audio video bit rates and other information that may be provided to the operator through display and audio output .

Network communication module is operatively coupled to the controller and enables the controller to send and receive data using one or more digital networks. In a typical embodiment network communication module implements a wireless networking protocol that enables the controller to send and receive data using external data networks while the vehicle is in operation. Examples of suitable wireless networks include 3G and 4G cellular data networks satellite based communication networks any suitable wireless wide area networks WWANs wireless local area networks WLANs including IEEE 802.11 wireless networks and any wireless data transmission standard appropriate for use with the vehicle . Controller may be configured to send and receive data packets using an Internet Protocol IP based protocol using for example either IP version 4 or IP version 6 common connection layer protocols including the Transport Control Protocol TCP and User Datagram Protocol UDP and a plurality of application level protocols. In particular the controller embodied in is configured to send and receive data conforming to the Hyper Text Transport Protocol HTTP commonly used with the World Wide Web.

An input output I O port is positioned within the vehicle and enables the controller to send and receive data with one or more electronic devices that are in proximity to the vehicle. The I O port may be implemented as a wired connection using a standard connection type such as the Universal Serial Bus USB or various other wired connection standards. The I O port may also be a wireless port that enables communication with an electronic device through a wireless protocol including the 802.11 WLAN and Bluetooth protocols. The I O port and network communication module may share common hardware components in some embodiments.

Various electronic devices may communicate with the controller using the I O port including diagnostic equipment and electronic devices carried by the operator or occupant of the vehicle. In one embodiment an occupant carries a handheld communication device such as a smart phone that includes communication hardware and software for communicating with the controller using the I O port . As described in more detail below the information system may run web applications and retrieve configuration data provided by the electronic device.

One or more vehicle systems are operatively coupled to the controller . The vehicle systems may include one or more sensors and gauges in the vehicle. Common examples in an automobile include the speedometer tachometer fuel gauge engine temperature gauge tire pressure gauges and the like. Controller may also be configured to obtain error codes and diagnostic messages from an onboard diagnostic computer system and in some embodiments the controller may implement the function of the onboard diagnostic system. The controller may identify trouble codes corresponding to an On Board Diagnostics OBD protocol and generate a plain language visual or audio message corresponding to the trouble code. Other in vehicle systems may include components having motors for automatic adjustment including an adjustable steering column seats gas and brake pedals and mirrors. The controller may be operatively coupled to the vehicle systems using a Controller area Network CAN communication bus or other communication systems suitable for sending commands to vehicle components and for receiving data from different systems in the vehicle.

In operation controller obtains program data from the data storage device and executes the program data. The program data include a web browser program that enables the controller to send and receive data with one or more web servers using one or both of the network communication module and the in vehicle I O port . The web browser is configured to download data corresponding to various web applications and execute the web applications on the controller . Program data also include one or more software modules that the controller executes to provide access to one or more of the vehicle systems using the web browser. The following figures describe processes that are suitable for use with the embodiment of for illustrative purposes but various alternative embodiments of the vehicle information system may be used as well.

As described above the controller is operatively coupled to one or more vehicular systems. Process identifies the vehicle systems present in a particular vehicle block . In one embodiment a manual process identifies vehicle systems with respect to the make model and production year of the vehicle . Alternatively a profiling program may generate query messages and record responses from one or more vehicle systems . In vehicles employing a CAN interface one or more Parameter Identifier PID queries may be sent through the CAN to one or more systems in the vehicle . Each system generates a response to a corresponding PID query and the profiling program may identify the system in accordance with predetermined PID response codes.

At block one or more software modules that enable the web browser to interact with the identified vehicle systems are installed as stored programs in data storage device block . The software modules translate data sent and received from the vehicular systems into a format that is compatible with the web browser. The software modules corresponding to different vehicle systems enable a web applications running in the web browser to access multiple types of vehicle systems even when the vehicle systems have different hardware implementations that perform similar functions. In some embodiments a software module identifies data sent from one or more vehicle systems and generates data formatted for the web browser from each of the identified systems.

An exemplary software module is configured to provide compatible fuel level data to the web browser for a fuel level sensor that is operatively coupled to the vehicle information system using the CAN data connection standard. The fuel level sensor generates data using one or more data frames conforming to at least one of the CAN base frame and CAN extended frame formats. A software module parses the CAN data frame and identifies the type of data as a fuel level. The software module extracts the data corresponding to the measured fuel level generated by the fuel level sensor. The software module then converts the data in the CAN frames into a format that is compatible with the web browser such as an XML or JSON Javascript Object Notation data format using a predetermined document structure that is compatible with various web applications. Vehicles having different fuel sensor hardware configurations may each have a compatible software module that generates XML data for the web browser from the data generated by each fuel sensor.

The software modules may be implemented as a web service executed by the controller and accessed using the HTTP protocol or may be implemented as one or more dynamically loaded modules that extend the functionality of the web browser. The functions of the software modules may be exposed to web applications using a predetermined Application Programming Interface API . Thus the system specific software modules enable the web browser to provide a uniform interface to vehicle systems for web applications even when different vehicle models use different hardware systems. In one embodiment the software modules are installed during manufacture of the vehicle. In the embodiment of controller may download the identified software modules using network communication module or I O port and store the software modules with the stored programs in the data storage device . The download process may also retrieve updated versions of one or more software modules after the initial installation is completed.

The embodiment of information system provides one or more local web applications where the executable code and associated data for the application are stored in a data storage device located within the vehicle . Controller may execute the local web applications during periods when the vehicle is unable to communicate with external data networks. In some embodiments the controller obtains local web application data stored in the data storage device more quickly than obtaining data using an external data network and thus enables faster responses to user requests even when external data networks are available. To enable local web applications a local web server program is installed in non volatile data storage device in the vehicle block . The executable code for the local web application and corresponding data are also stored in the data storage device block . In operation the controller executes both the web browser and web server programs although two different controllers may execute the browser and server software in an alternative vehicle information system embodiment. Instead of relying on a local web server the browser can also load the local web application directly from the storage such as by using the file Protocol.

Due to the wide variety of vehicle computing systems sensors and data communication protocols used in different vehicles each type of vehicle may receive a different combination of web browser and software modules. The web browser and associated software modules that interface with vehicle systems enable compatibility between a plurality of vehicle types with one or more web applications. The web browsers in various types of vehicles may execute a single web application to perform a particular task instead of requiring specific software applications written for each vehicle. The software modules loaded into each vehicle provide compatibility between systems having similar functions but different hardware configurations. Using the fuel gauge example described above a single web application tracks the rate of fuel consumption in a vehicle and provides a visual representation of the fuel levels and usage to the vehicle operator. The fuel consumption web application may be used with various vehicles including a boat truck passenger car and motorcycle even though these vehicles each employ different embodiments of control systems and fuel sensors.

The process shown in is illustrative of one embodiment of a process for configuring a vehicle information system. Thus alternative embodiments may omit some of the process operations described above and the process may be carried out in an order other than the order of . While process is described with reference to the vehicle information system of process may be used with alternative vehicle information system embodiments.

Process identifies the type of content present in the web application or web page block . The content type refers to the information intended to be perceived by a user when the data element content is presented to the user. Various methods of identification include analysis of metadata and semantic data associated received by the web application. Metadata include markup elements and tags present in data that the web browser receives that are not intended for direct display as part of the document but instead provide information that the web browser may use to identify the content and purpose of the data. Semantic data may be associated with a single data element or with a plurality of data elements associated with a web page. The web browser may also identify the data when the data use semantic descriptors including the Resource Description Format RDF Web Ontology Language OWL and microformats that enable machine identification of web content.

In another embodiment the web browser uses the uniform resource locator URL associated with a web page as an index into a knowledge base of predetermined URLs and identifies the type of content associated with the URL. The knowledge base may be stored with stored data in data storage device in the vehicle or may be placed on a web server that is accessible to the web browser. For example a URL containing youtube.com may have a knowledge base entry that indicates the content of the loaded data includes a video.

In still another embodiment process identifies the type of web content by a direct analysis of content received by the web browser. In this embodiment the web browser or other software in the vehicle information system perform document and text classification using for example Bayesian network techniques word frequency analysis and key word identification that generate an identification of the content of a web page. Process identifies the type of web application or web data to enable identification of relevant data for presentation to the user.

Once the type of content is identified process identifies relevant portions of the content for presentation to the user block . As used herein the terms relevance as applied to data elements refers to a ranking of various data elements for presentation via the user interface based upon the content type identified in block . Process may assign a numeric relevance level to a data element or order data elements in a hierarchy according to relevance. For example in a web application the user interface elements that enable the user to interact with the web application may be assigned a higher relevance while in a streaming audio application the selected audio stream receives the highest relevance. Process references identified relevance of data elements in a web application or web page when arranging the data elements in a layout for presentation via the user interface.

When presenting data to the operator of the vehicle the vehicle information system identifies the operating condition of the vehicle block . One exemplary vehicle is an automobile having multiple operating conditions. Three exemplary operating conditions may be when the automobile is parked when the automobile is moving above a predetermined speed and when the automobile is stopped in traffic. The vehicle information system may identify the operating condition of the vehicle from one or more vehicle systems including a speedometer brake sensor and gear selection.

The vehicle information system filters information and generates the layout of user interface data presented to the user with reference to the identified content type content relevance and operating condition of the vehicle block . The layout of data elements refers to position size order color and any characteristic of the data elements that affects the presentation of the data elements to the user. Layout may refer to non visual presentation of data as well. For example a layout may present one data element visually and present another data element audibly.

Process may generate a user interface using data elements with identified relevance levels that exceed a predetermined relevance threshold. The threshold may be a numeric relevance identifier or the threshold may represent a predetermined number of the most relevant data elements. The relevance threshold may also be selected in response to the operating condition of the vehicle . For example when the vehicle is in motion the relevance threshold may be higher than when the vehicle is parked.

In a visual user interface using visual display the web browser may generate a layout of data elements beginning with the data elements having the highest relevance and continuing to display lower relevance data elements until the display is filled with information. Process may generate a layout of the data elements that displays data elements having a higher relevance with larger display sizes and more prominent positions in the layout than lower relevance data elements.

As noted above process also presents user interface data with respect to the identified operating condition of the vehicle . In some instances the content type conflicts with the operating condition of the vehicle and the content is filtered from view until the operating condition changes. For example a web application that presents a graphical interactive game to the operator is filtered from use when the vehicle is in motion or stopped in traffic but may be available when the vehicle is parked. In one configuration web pages including text content are not presented using visual display when the vehicle is in operation. The information system may however generate synthetic speech corresponding to the text to enable audio playback of the text elements in a web page when the vehicle is in operation. Process may identify the operating condition of the vehicle block and adjust the layout of data presented via the user interface block in a continuous manner as the operating conditions of the vehicle change.

One example of the process is described with reference to and . In this example a web application in the form of an address book is received by the vehicle information system at block . The vehicle information system implements a web browser to execute the functions of the address book application and to generate a user interface based on the data elements received with the address book application.

At block process identifies the content type of the data elements associated with the web application. The address book application is identified as an interactive web application that provides functions related to personal contacts and addresses to a user in the vehicle . The data types of different data elements in the web application are identified in block . Examples of such elements may include address book application control elements address book contact data elements including names phone numbers street addresses and photographs of contacts in the address book navigational information and advertising elements associated with the web application.

At block the data elements are assigned relevance levels based on the identified type of the data item. Using the address book example the highest relevance is assigned to the control elements that enable the user to select different operations within the address book web application. The web application may receive data elements such as graphics and text that process assigns to lower relevance levels. For example the vehicle information system may assign a low relevance to graphical data elements such as banner graphics that provide decoration in the web application data.

At block the operating condition of the vehicle is identified. The vehicle information system may determine the operating condition of the vehicle based on data received from one or more in vehicle systems . One or more vehicle systems including for example a global positioning system GPS a speedometer a tachometer a brake sensor or a gear indicator that indicate the operating condition of the vehicle . Since the operating condition of vehicle may change at one or more times the vehicle information system may monitor the operating condition of the vehicle to identify changes in the operating condition.

At block the vehicle information system generates a user interface based on the data elements in the address book web application. The user interface has a layout that is generated in accordance with the identified data types of data elements in the web application relevance assigned to the data elements and the identified operating condition of the vehicle .

Visual display A includes data elements A A and A arranged in a first layout. Entry A displays a main text element A with a large font and a descriptive text element in a smaller font. Process assigns a lower relevance to descriptive text element than the main text element A. Element A enables a user to view and edit information pertaining to a contact in the address book. Element is a touch screen button that generates another menu not shown that enables the user to enter information corresponding to a new contact in the address book application. Element A activates an in vehicle navigation application that provides directions to a geographic address stored in the address book and the element A activates a voice call application that may place a phone call to a phone number stored in the address book.

When the vehicle information system generates the user interface seen in the vehicle may change operating conditions from being parked to being in motion. Process continues to identify the operating condition of the vehicle at block . At block process generates a user interface for the address book application in accordance with the identified operating condition as shown in .

In process removes the add new contact data element from the data display B. When identifying the content type of data elements in the address book application at block the process may identify predetermined words such as edit and add in a date element that are associated with actions related to one or more vehicle operating conditions. In the example of data elements including the predetermined words are modified or removed from the user interface when the vehicle is in motion. Thus data element is omitted from the display B and data element B is displayed in a modified layout corresponding to the operating condition of the vehicle .

Process generates visual display B with the elements B B and B depicted with larger sizes and in different positions than shown in . In particular the font sizes of the data elements B B and B each have larger font sizes from the layout seen in to make the entries more recognizable when the vehicle is in motion. The data elements B B and B are positioned next to one another using the available display space with no intervening gap corresponding to the omitted element .

While some prior art automotive display systems disable selected in vehicle functions when the automobile is in operation the prior art systems still display a grayed out view of menu entries for disabled functions. The displays shown in and however change the user interface layout to remove inactive user interface elements and also change the layouts of the remaining user interface elements to provide an alternative user interface layout when the vehicle is in operation.

The process shown in is illustrative of one embodiment of a process for changing the presentation and layout of a user interface in a vehicle information system. Thus alternative embodiments may omit some of the process operations described above and the process may be carried out in an order other than the order of . While process is described with reference to the vehicle information system of process may be used with alternative vehicle information system embodiments.

When the vehicle information system identifies that the vehicle is in an operating condition that enables user interface changes an occupant of the vehicle may change the user interface to suite his or her personal preferences block . Various alterations to a default user interface include but are not limited to selecting an interface color scheme font typeface font size volume level for audio output phone numbers navigation settings and various settings for entertainment including preferred radio stations and internet media services. In one embodiment the user may adjust the user interface using input devices in the vehicle and may select interface options using an external computing device such as a smart phone. Once the user has adjusted the user interface the preferred configuration may be saved for future use as a set of alternative configuration data.

The alternative configuration data may be saved to a data storage device within the car for future retrieval may be uploaded to a web server or may be saved in a portable electronic device such as a personal media player or smart phone. In vehicles with multiple operators each operator may store a set of alternative configuration data in the data storage device in the vehicle . The information system provides an interface that enables each operator to select a preferred user interface configuration using input devices . When an operator selects one of the stored sets of user interface configuration data the controller identifies a format identifier that corresponds to the selected user interface configuration. Each format identifier corresponds to one of the stored sets of user interface configuration data. Once selected the information system generates the user interface based on the selected user interface configuration data.

In embodiments where the alternative configuration data are stored in a remote server or in a portable electronic device the same set of alternative configuration data may be used in multiple vehicles including different types of vehicles. In one embodiment a vehicle occupant provides a mobile electronic device containing the alternative configuration data and the vehicle information system receives the alternative configuration data using in vehicle I O port . The vehicle information system may accept user configuration data from electronic devices and remote servers when the operating condition of the vehicle otherwise prevents user interface configuration changes entered via the input devices .

In the event that the vehicle information system does not receive alternative user interface configuration data block the user interface presents web applications and other received data using the default user interface configuration data and with respect to the operating state of the vehicle as described above in block .

In the event that the vehicle information system receives alternative user interface configuration data block the vehicle information system overrides the default user interface configuration data with the alternative user interface configuration data block . The alternative user interface configuration data may have alternative settings for a portion of the user interface configuration elements in the information system while the default configuration data are still used for other settings. For example an alternative set of user configuration data may include a list of contacts for voice communications but does not override the default visual interface settings. The default configuration settings remain in use when the alternative user interface configuration data do not override the default settings.

The vehicle information system presents the user interface using the alternative configuration data with respect to the operating condition of the vehicle block . The information system may ignore one or more alternative user interface configuration settings when the operating state of the vehicle does not permit the use of the alternative configuration. For example an alternative user interface configuration may specify a streaming video service as a default for in vehicle entertainment. The alternative configuration setting overrides the default settings when the vehicle is parked. When the vehicle is in motion however the web browser identifies the content of the video service and either prevents playback of any videos or enables playback of audio associated with the videos during operation of the vehicle.

The process shown in is illustrative of one embodiment of a process for changing the configuration of a user interface in a vehicle information system. Thus alternative embodiments may omit some of the process operations described above and the process may be carried out in an order other than the order of . While process is described with reference to the vehicle information system of process may be used with alternative vehicle information system embodiments.

The processes and systems described herein enable occupants of one or more vehicles to configure common user interface settings for vehicle information systems in multiple vehicles of various types. The web application system described herein enables a common set of web applications to provide infotainment services for multiple types of vehicles that would otherwise require individual software and hardware configurations for each vehicle type.

While the invention has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description the same should be considered as illustrative and not restrictive in character. It is understood that only the preferred embodiments have been presented and that all changes modifications and further applications that come within the spirit of the invention are desired to be protected.

