---

title: Tools for predicting improvement in website search engine rankings based upon website linking relationships
abstract: The present inventions may be implemented by tools for predicting website search engine rankings. An example system may comprise: a first website having a first IP address hosted on at least one server computer communicatively coupled to a network; a second website having a second IP address hosted on one or more of the at least one server computer; and one or more of the at least one server computers being configured to calculate a link match score indicating whether a search engine ranking for the first website would improve if the first website entered a linking relationship with the second website, wherein the link match score is a function of whether the first IP address is similar to the second IP address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08370365&OS=08370365&RS=08370365
owner: Go Daddy Operating Company, LLC
number: 08370365
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110131
---
This patent application is related to the following concurrently filed patent applications each of which are assigned to Go Daddy Operating Company LLC and incorporated herein by reference 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 017 921 entitled PREDICTING IMPROVEMENT IN WEBSITE SEARCH ENGINE RANKINGS BASED UPON WEBSITE LINKING RELATIONSHIPS and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 017 953 entitled WEBSITE LINKING AND MONITORING SERVICE PROVIDING IMPROVED WEBSITE SEARCH ENGINE RANKINGS. 

The present inventions generally relate to the Internet and more particularly methods and tools for predicting and improving website search engine rankings based upon website linking relationships.

An example embodiment of a method for predicting website search engine rankings may comprise the step of calculating a link match score indicating whether a search engine ranking for a first website having a first IP address would improve if the first website entered a linking relationship with a second website having a second IP address wherein the link match score is a function of whether the first IP address is similar to the second IP address.

An example embodiment of a tool for predicting website search engine rankings may comprise a first website having a first IP address hosted on at least one server computer communicatively coupled to a network a second website having a second IP address hosted on at least one server computer and at least one server computer configured to calculate a link match score indicating whether a search engine ranking for the first website would improve if it entered a linking relationship with the second website wherein the link match score is a function of whether the first IP address is similar to the second IP address.

An example embodiment of a method for implementing a website linking service providing improved website search engine rankings may comprise the steps of receiving from an operator of a first website a request to enter a linking relationship with at least one of a plurality of websites determining whether a search engine ranking for the first website would improve if the first website entered a linking relationship with a second website selected from the plurality of websites and responsive to a determination that the search engine ranking would improve installing a first link to the first website on the second website and a second link to the second website on the first website.

The above features and advantages of the present inventions will be better understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present inventions will now be discussed in detail with regard to the attached drawing figures which were briefly described above. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth illustrating the Applicant s best mode for practicing the inventions and enabling one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the inventions. It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present inventions may be practiced without many of these specific details. In other instances well known machines structures and method steps have not been described in particular detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present inventions. Unless otherwise indicated like parts and method steps are referred to with like reference numerals.

A network is a collection of links and nodes e.g. multiple computers and or other devices connected together arranged so that information may be passed from one part of the network to another over multiple links and through various nodes. Examples of networks include the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks and wireless networks.

The Internet is a worldwide network of computers and computer networks arranged to allow the easy and robust exchange of information between computer users. Hundreds of millions of people around the world have access to computers connected to the Internet via Internet Service Providers ISPs . Content providers place multimedia information e.g. text graphics audio video animation and other forms of data at specific locations on the Internet referred to as webpages. Websites comprise a collection of connected or otherwise related webpages. The combination of all the websites and their corresponding webpages on the Internet is generally known as the World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web.

Prevalent on the Web are multimedia websites some of which may offer and sell goods and services to individuals and organizations. Websites may consist of a single webpage but typically consist of multiple interconnected and related webpages. Menus and links may be used to move between different webpages within the website or to move to a different website as is known in the art. The interconnectivity of webpages enabled by the Internet can make it difficult for Internet users to tell where one website ends and another begins. Websites may be created using HyperText Markup Language HTML to generate a standard set of tags that define how the webpages for the website are to be displayed.

Websites unless extremely large and complex or have unusual traffic demands typically reside on a single server and are prepared and maintained by a single individual or entity. Some Internet users typically those that are larger and more sophisticated may provide their own hardware software and connections to the Internet. But many Internet users either do not have the resources available or do not want to create and maintain the infrastructure necessary to host their own websites. To assist such individuals or entities hosting companies exist that offer website hosting services. These hosting service providers typically provide the hardware software and electronic communication means necessary to connect multiple websites to the Internet. A single hosting service provider may literally host thousands of websites on one or more hosting servers.

Users of the Internet may access content providers websites using software known as an Internet browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX. After the browser has located the desired webpage it requests and receives information from the webpage typically in the form of an HTML document and then displays the webpage content for the user. The user then may view other webpages at the same website or move to an entirely different website using the browser.

Browsers are able to locate specific websites because each website resource and computer on the Internet has a unique Internet Protocol IP address e.g. 64.202.167.32 an IPv4 address or 2EDC BA98 0332 0000 CF8A 000C 2154 7313 an IPv6 address . IP addresses however even in such human readable notation are difficult for people to remember and use. A Uniform Resource Locator URL is much easier to remember and may be used to point to any computer directory or file on the Internet. A browser is able to access a website on the Internet through the use of a URL. The URL may include a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request combined with the website s Internet address also known as the website s domain. An example of a URL with a HTTP request and domain is http www.companyname.com. In this example the http identifies the URL as a HTTP request and the companyname.com is the domain.

Internet users may locate websites via search engines that search for information on the World Wide Web. Commercially available search engines include GOOGLE YAHOO and MICROSOFT BING. A search engine functions as an information retrieval system that responsive to a user s search request e.g. keyword query entered into a data field on a search engine s website locates and returns links to websites determined by the search engine to be relevant to the submitted keywords. Search engines use various algorithms to determine which websites are most relevant to the submitted keywords.

Although the algorithm used by a specific search engine may be proprietary it is generally known that many algorithms consider as relevant factors the frequency and location of terms on a website and the way that the website links to other websites on the Web. Websites having terms deemed relevant to the submitted keywords may be given a higher ranking. Similarly websites that are linked to other websites deemed relevant to the submitted keywords e.g. the other websites contain hyperlinks to the subject website also may be given a boost in relevancy ranking by the search engine. Search engines generally return results perhaps in list form on a results webpage such as a list of vertically arranged links placing those links deemed by the search engine s algorithm to be most relevant to the submitted keywords in the most prominent location on the search result webpage e.g. the top of the list .

Search Engine Optimization SEO is the process of analyzing search engines and their algorithms to identify the factors used by the search engine to determine website relevancy and using those factors to improve a website s ranking and therefore obtain a more prominent placement on the search engine results webpage. Optimizing a website for improved SEO ranking may include editing its content HTML metadata and or associated code to increase its relevance to specific keywords. It also may comprise promoting the website to other website operators to increase the number of inbound links to the website.

Link building therefore is one of the many strategies employed by website operators to improve their websites search ranking. Successful link building however is time consuming and laborious requiring the website operator to research other websites reach out to their operators and agree to exchange and install links. Applicant has determined that presently existing systems and methods do not provide optimal means for predicting recommending implementing or monitoring successful link building relationships. Specifically there is a need for the methods and tools for predicting website search engine rankings based upon website linking relationships and recommending implementing and monitoring such website linking relationships as described herein.

As a non limiting example the method illustrated in and all methods described herein may be performed by any central processing unit CPU in one or more computing devices or systems such as a microprocessor running on a server computer communicatively coupled to a network e.g. the Internet and executing instructions stored perhaps as scripts and or software in computer readable media accessible to the CPU such as a hard disk drive or solid state memory on a server computer.

As discussed above the first website s search engine ranking refers to the position at which the first website would appear on a search engine results page responsive to a query. The first website would have a higher ranking if it appears in a prominent or preferential location on the search result webpage e.g. the top of the list and vice versa.

A link match score may be calculated that may predict whether the first website s search engine ranking would benefit e.g. improve if the first website entered a link relationship with a second website Step . A linking relationship between the first website and the second website might be unilateral or bilateral. In a unilateral linking relationship only one website has a link to the other e.g. the second website contains a hyperlink to the first website but the first website does not contain a hyperlink to the second website . In a bilateral e.g. reciprocal linking relationship both websites have links to each other.

One reason the first website s search engine ranking may benefit from such a relationship is that many search engine rankings are based in part on the number and quality of inbound links to a website. Thus the mere existence of an inbound link from the second website to the first website may cause various search engines to raise or improve the first website s ranking. However many search engines discount or disregard inbound links that are obvious attempts to spoof the search engine ranking algorithm. For example inbound links from a website operated by the same individual or entity as the receiving website may be discounted or disregarded when a rank is determined.

One possible method of calculating such a link match score may comprise determining whether the first website s IP address is similar to the IP address of the second website because similar IP addresses may indicate commonality of website ownership. As a non limiting example a link match score may indicate an improved search engine ranking for the first website where its IP address does not match the second website s IP address. This is true because although many search engines may boost a website s rankings based upon the number of inbound links they also attempt to factor in the quality of such links. They do this by analyzing the servers hosting the first and second websites. If the IP addresses are similar for both this may indicate a common website operator attempting to spoof the search engine s algorithm by installing mutual links between his own websites to falsely raise his website s rank. To combat this search engine ranking algorithms may not improve a website s rank even if the website has inbound links if the inbound links come from a website hosted on the same server or network.

Thus a calculated link match score for a website may be high therefore predicting an improved ranking where the second website s IP address differs from the IP address of the first website because differing IP addresses indicate different website operators and therefore legitimate inbound links. As a specific non limiting example where the first and second websites are hosted on servers using class C IPv4 IP addresses the link match score may be a function of whether the first three octets of the first website s IP address matches the first three octets of the second website s IP address. For example the link match score may indicate an improved search engine ranking for the first website where the first three octets of its IP address do not match the first three octets of the second class C IP address.

There are five IPv4 IP classes A E each class using 32 bit IP addresses which are each divided into four octets eight bit sections such as 64.202.167.32. Class C addresses often used by businesses and hosting providers range from 192.0.1.1 to 233.255.254.254 and use the first three octets to identify the network. The fourth octet identifies the computer connected to the network. Thus class C IP addresses may support over two million different networks each of which may support 254 computers. Linked websites having a different first three octets of a class C IP address are more likely to have different operators less likely to have spoofed links and more likely to have a higher search engine ranking.

A higher calculated link match score may indicate an improved search engine ranking for the first website should it enter a linking relationship with the second website. The link match score itself may comprise any rating or ranking scale known in the art or developed in the future. As non limiting examples the link match score may range from 0 to 1 1 to 10 0 to 100 and or A to F e.g. grades . Alternatively it may comprise a star rating system or a color rating system e.g. red indicates a poor quality match yellow indicates an average quality match and green indicates a good match .

As one non limiting example the range for link match scores may have a minimum value of 0 and a maximum value of 100 and may indicate an improved search engine ranking for the first website if it exceeds a score of 50 . Where the link match score if a function of whether the first website s IP address is similar to the IP address of the second website the link match score may be initially set at 50 where the IP addresses are different.

The number of inbound links also known as backlinks incoming links inlinks and inward links to the second website or any of its webpages may be factored into the link match score calculation. An inbound link is any link received by a web node web page directory website or top level domain from another web node. The number of inbound links is an indication of the popularity or importance of the second website. For example the more that other websites link to the second website the more hits the second website is likely to receive. Thus the first website s search engine ranking is likely to increase if linked to the second website because the second website would have a higher ranking itself.

The illustrated method may use any system process or method known in the art or developed in the future to determine the number of inbound links to the second website. As a few non limiting examples YAHOO s Site Explorer Application Programming Interface API or GOOGLE Analytics services may analyze the second website and determine the number of inbound links. Alternatively proprietary software may be written to analyze the second website and determine the number of inbound links.

Once the number of inbound links have been determined the calculated link match score for the first website may increase or decrease according to the determined number of inbound links to the second website. For example the link match score may be set at a higher value if the number of inbound links to the second website is greater than 1. Continuing with the above example if the link match score was initially set at 50 because the IP addresses for the first and second website are different the link match score may be reset to a higher value e.g. 60 if the second website has more than one inbound link.

The GOOGLE PageRank for the second website also may be factored into the link match score calculation. PageRank is a link analysis algorithm that assigns a numerical weighting to each element of a hyperlinked set of documents such as webpages and websites on the Internet to calculate reach document s relative importance. Thus a website s PageRank comprises a numerical value that represents how important or popular a website is according to GOOGLE s proprietary algorithm. The PageRank algorithm is made available for public use via an exposed API and GOOGLE s website. Users merely need to submit a website s URL and the PageRank is returned generally as a whole number between zero and ten. The most popular websites have a PageRank of ten and the least popular have a PageRank of zero.

Once the PageRank for the second website been determined the calculated link match score for the first website may increase or decrease according to the determined PageRank score. For example the Link match score may be reset to a higher value if the PageRank for the second website is greater than one. Continuing with the above example if the link match score was initially set at 50 because the IP addresses for the first and second website are different and subsequently reset to 60 because the second website has more than one inbound link the link match score again may be reset to a higher value e.g. 70 if the second website has a PageRank greater than one.

Another variable that may factor into the link match score is whether an Open Directory Project category for the first website matches an Open Directory Project category for the second website. The Open Directory Project ODP is an open content directory of websites that is maintained and edited by a community of volunteer editors. It uses a hierarchical ontology scheme to organize websites according to their content. Websites on similar topics are assigned to relevant categories and grouped accordingly. The ODP assigned category for a particular website may be determined by entering the website s URL in the search box on ODP s website www.dmoz.org or by placing a function call on the ODP s API.

Returning to once the ODP assigned category for the first and second websites have been determined the calculated link match score for the first website may increase if the categories match or decreased if they do not match . Continuing with the above example if the link match score was initially set at 50 because the IP addresses for the first and second website are different reset to 60 because the second website has more than one inbound link and raised to 70 because the second website has a PageRank of greater than one it may again be raised if the ODP assigned categories for the first and second websites match e.g. to 80 .

Another variable that may factor into the link match score is whether a keyword for the first website matches a keyword for the second website. Websites having keywords in their text HTML code and or metadata that match or are ontologically similar to search terms are more likely to return as a hit in a search. Thus for improved SEO rankings it is important for a linking relationship that linked websites have matching or similar keywords. Keyword for the first or second websites may be received from their respective website operators perhaps during the process of registering for or otherwise requesting a linking relationship for their respective websites. Alternatively website keywords may be determined by crawling the first and or second websites. This may be accomplished by a Web crawler which may comprise software running on a server that may browse the first and second websites analyze their links HTML code text and other content and or metadata to identify keywords that may be indicative of the websites subject matter.

Once keywords for the first and second websites have been determined the calculated link match score for the first website may increase if the categories match or decreased if they do not match . Continuing with the above example if the link match score was initially set at 50 because the IP addresses for the first and second website are different reset to 60 because the second website has more than one inbound link raised to 70 because the second website has a PageRank of greater than one and raised to 80 because their ODP assigned categories for the first and second websites match the link match score may again be raised e.g. to 90 if matching keywords are found.

Another variable that may factor into the link match score is a popularity rank for the second website. The link match score reset at a higher value if the popularity of the second website is high of reduced if it is low . The disclosed method embodiments may utilize any system or method of quantifying or otherwise ranking the popularity a website including but not limited to using a website s ALEXA ranking as a variable in the link match score calculation.

ALEXA is a company that provides Internet users with a toolbar that once installed on a user s browser collects data on browsing behavior. The data then is transmitted to ALEXA where it is analyzed and used to generate website popularity rankings A website having an ALEXA score of one indicates that the website is the most visited website on the Internet. A score of 1000 similarly indicates that it ranks as the 1000most visited website. ALEXA makes its rankings available to the public through a comprehensive set of web services and APIs.

Once the second website s ALEXA ranking has been determined the calculated link match score for the first website may increase if the ranking is high e.g. a low ALEXA score or decreased if low e.g. a high ALEXA score . Continuing with the above example if the link match score was initially set at 50 because the IP addresses for the first and second website are different reset to 60 because the second website has more than one inbound link raised to 70 because the second website has a PageRank of greater than one raised to 80 because their ODP assigned categories for the first and second websites match and raised to 0.9 because matching keywords were found it may be lowered e.g. back to 80 if the second website s ALEXA ranking is high e.g. a poor ranking .

Such data and any other data described herein may be transmitted or received via any method of data transfer know in the art or developed in the future. Such data transfer methods can generally be classified in two categories 1 pull based data transfers where the receiver initiates a data transmission request and 2 push based data transfers where the sender initiates a data transmission request. Both types are expressly included in the embodiments illustrated herein which also may include transparent data transfers over network file systems explicit file transfers from dedicated file transfer services like FTP or HTTP distributed file transfers over peer to peer networks file transfers over instant messaging systems file transfers between computers and peripheral devices and or file transfers over direct modem or serial null modem links such as XMODEM YMODEM and ZMODEM. Data streaming technology also may be used to effectuate data transfer. A data stream may be for example a sequence of digitally encoded coherent signals packets of data used to transmit or receive information that is in transmission. Any data transfer protocol known in the art or developed in the future may be used including but not limited to those used with TCP IP e.g. FTAM FTP HTTP RCP SFTP SCP or FASTCopy those used with UDP e.g. TFTP FSP UFTP or MFTP those used with direct modem connections HTTP streaming Tubular Data Stream Protocol TDSP Stream Control Transmission Protocol SCTP and or Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP .

As alternative non limiting examples the link match score may be transmitted via any electronic communication such as an email message or Short Message Service SMS message i.e. text message or via any other means such as via a written typewritten faxed or mailed document or via oral communication. Depending on the scoring scheme used the score may be presented as a range from 0 to 1 1 to 10 0 to 100 A to F e.g. grades a star rating system or a color rating system e.g. red indicates a poor quality match yellow indicates an average quality match and green indicates a good match .

Once both first and second website operators consent to the linking relationship a first code comprising a first link to the first website may be transmitted to the second website s operator Step and or a second code comprising a second link to the second website may be transmitted to the first website s operator Step for installation on their respective websites. The first and second code may comprise any computer program software or script that when received and installed on a website provides a hyperlink to the linked to website. As a non limiting example the link codes may comprise pre formatted HTML code transmitted to the website operator perhaps as an email attachment.

The predetermined value e.g. score may comprise the threshold limit at which a linking relationship to the second website may be recommended or suggested to the first website operator. The predetermined value may be received from the first website operator when he signs up for a link matching service. Alternatively the link match service provider may generate a threshold predetermined value above which linking relationships will be recommended.

Continuing with the above example if a 0 to 100 link match score scale is used the first website owner may indicate perhaps via a data field on a link match service provider s webpage that he wishes to receive link match recommendations only if the calculated link match score exceeds 70 . If the calculated link match score for a potential matching website e.g. the second website exceeds 70 a linking relationship between the first and second website may be recommended Step .

A linking relationship may be recommended Step by any of the means of communication and or transmitting and receiving data described above. In one non limiting example the link match service provider may transmit email or any other electronic communications to the first website operator and or the second website operator. The electronic communication may provide the first website operator with contact information for the second website operator and or vice versa such as email address telephone number website URL etc. thereby enabling the website operators to directly contact each other and install links to each other s website. Alternatively the link match provider may transmit links to the respective website operators as described above with respect to Steps and .

The first website profile is illustrated in and as non limiting examples may comprise any data structure e.g. data file spreadsheet database record etc. storing in association information about the first website including but not limited to a domain name for the first website an IP address for the first website a number of inbound links to the first website a PageRank for the first website an Open Directory Project category for the first website at least one keyword for the first website and or a popularity ranking for the first website.

The second website profile is illustrated in and as non limiting examples may comprise any data structure e.g. data file spreadsheet database record etc. storing in association information about the second website including but not limited to a domain name for the second website an IP address for the second website a number of inbound links to the second website a PageRank for the second website an Open Directory Project category for the second website at least one keyword for the second website and or a popularity ranking for the second website.

As a non limiting example the first website profile and second website profile may be generated Steps and perhaps by software and or scripts running on at least one server by receiving information regarding the relevant website e.g. domain name URL website category website operator contact information etc. directly from the website operator. Additional information PageRank ALEXA ranking number of inbound links ODP category keywords etc. then may be determined perhaps by a Web crawler spidering the websites determining the additional information and returning such data to the server generating the website profiles.

Once the website profiles have been generated Steps and the link match score may be calculated Step by determining the degree to which the first website profile correlates with the second website profile . If the calculated correlation is high the link match score may indicate that a search engine ranking for the first website would improve if it entered a linking relationship with the second website.

As a non limiting example the calculated correlation could range from 0 to 1 and a correlation of greater than 0.5 may result in a link match score that indicates an improved search engine ranking for the first website. For example a calculated correlation of 0.8 might result in a green link match score if a color scoring scheme is used a B score if a grading scoring scheme is used or an 80 score if a percentage scoring scheme is used .

The calculated correlation may increase or decrease based upon any of the data in the website profiles. As a non limiting example the calculated correlation may be initially set at greater than 0.5 where the IP address for the first website does not match the IP address for the second website.

The number of inbound links to the second website also may be factored into the calculated correlation. For example the calculated correlation may be set at a higher value if the number of inbound links to the second website is greater than 1. Continuing with the above example if the calculated correlation was initially set at 0.5 because the IP addresses for the first and second website are different the calculated correlation may be reset to a higher value e.g. 0.6 if the second website has more than one inbound link.

The GOOGLE PageRank for the second website also may be factored into the calculated correlation. For example the calculated correlation again may be reset to a higher value e.g. 0.7 if the second website has a PageRank greater than one.

Another variable that may factor into the calculated correlation is whether an Open Directory Project ODP category for the first website matches an ODP category for the second website. Continuing with the above example the calculated correlation again may be raised if the ODP assigned categories for the first and second websites match e.g. to 0.8 .

Another variable that may factor into the calculated correlation is whether a keyword for the first website matches a keyword for the second website. Continuing with the above example the calculated correlation may again be raised e.g. to 0.9 if matching keywords are found.

Another variable that may factor into the calculated correlation is a popularity rank for the second website such as its ALEXA ranking. For example the calculated correlation may be lowered e.g. back to 0.8 if the second website has a poor ALEXA or other popularity ranking.

Other information about the first website e.g. IP address PageRank ALEXA or other popularity ranking number of inbound links ODP category keywords etc. then may be determined perhaps by a Web crawler spidering the first website determining the additional information and returning such data to the server generating the website profiles and Step . Both the operator submitted website information and the data determined in Step may then be used to generate the first website profile .

Tools for Predicting Improved Website Search Engine Rankings Based Upon Website Linking Relationships

The example embodiments herein place no limitation on network configuration or connectivity. Thus as non limiting examples the network could comprise the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks wireless networks or any combination thereof.

Server computers and or client computers used to access the network may be communicatively coupled to the network via any method of network connection known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to wired wireless modem dial up satellite cable modem Digital Subscriber Line DSL Asymmetric Digital Subscribers Line ASDL Virtual Private Network VPN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN X.25 Ethernet token ring Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI IP over Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Infrared Data Association IrDA wireless WAN technologies T1 Frame Relay Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet PPPoE and or any combination thereof.

The first website and second website each may comprise any collection of data and or files accessible to a client or server communicatively coupled to the network . As a non limiting example the first and second websites and each may comprise a single webpage or multiple interconnected and related webpages resolving from a domain name each of which may provide access to static dynamic multimedia or any other content perhaps by accessing files e.g. text audio video graphics executable HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML Active Server Pages ASP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Flash files server side scripting etc. that enable the website to display when rendered by a browser on a client.

Such files may be stored i.e. hosted in any data storage medium capable of storing data or instructions for access and or execution by a computing device such as a server or client computer. Such data storage may comprise as non limiting examples magnetic optical semiconductor paper or any other data storage media a database or other network storage device hard disk drives portable disks CD ROM DVD RAM ROM flash memory and or holographic data storage perhaps in a network storage device communicatively coupled to the network such as a hard drive or other memory on a server .

The at least one server and or any other server described herein could be any computer i.e. hardware or program e.g. software that provides services to other computers programs or users either in the same computer or over a computer network. As non limiting examples the at least one server may comprise an application communication mail database proxy fax file media web peer to peer or standalone server and may use any server format known in the art or developed in the future possibly a shared hosting server a virtual dedicated hosting server a dedicated hosting server or any combination thereof .

As a non limiting example at least one server may be configured to perform the steps described herein by installing instructions e.g. software scripts code etc. in computer readable media on a server or other computing device that when executed by a microprocessor on the server or other computing device cause the microprocessor to accomplish the required step.

The computer readable media may comprise any data storage medium capable of storing instructions for execution by a computing device. It may comprise as non limiting examples magnetic optical semiconductor paper or any other data storage media a database or other network storage device hard disk drives portable disks CD ROM DVD RAM ROM flash memory and or holographic data storage. The instructions may as non limiting examples comprise software scripts code etc. stored in the computer readable media that may be stored locally in a server or client computer or alternatively may be stored in a highly distributed format in a plurality of computer readable media accessible to the computing device via the network perhaps via a grid or cloud computing environment.

The illustrated embodiment further comprises at least one profile database communicatively coupled to the network via the methods described above. The profile database may store the first website profile and or second website profile generated by the server computer s or other computing device. As a non limiting example the profile database may run on at least one server and may store the first website profile second website profile and or other related data perhaps via database tables database relations or structured files which may comprise any set of organized data elements i.e. values perhaps organized using a model of vertical columns and horizontal rows.

As non limiting examples the profile database may comprise a local database online database desktop database server side database relational database hierarchical database network database object database object relational database associative database concept oriented database entity attribute value database multi dimensional database semi structured database star schema database XML database file collection of files spreadsheet or other means of data storage located on a computer client server or any other storage device known in the art or developed in the future.

The systems illustrated in may be accessed by users e.g. website operators wishing to participate in a link match service offered by an individual or entity practicing the illustrated and claimed embodiments perhaps by a client communicatively coupled to the network . Examples of suitable client computers include but are not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a hand held computer a terminal a television a television set top box a cellular phone a wireless phone a wireless hand held device an Internet access device a rich client thin client or any other client functional with a client server computing architecture.

Another tool that may perform the methods described herein may comprise an application programming interface API running on at least one server communicatively coupled to a network . The API may comprise computer readable code e.g. instructions stored in computer readable media that when executed by a microprocessor on the server computer causes the server to perform the method steps described herein.

The API may comprise a software to software interface that specifies the protocol defining how independent computer programs interact or communicate with each other. As a non limiting example the API may allow website operators software to communicate and interact with the described inventions perhaps over the network through a series of function calls requests for services . Alternatively the API may allow third party entities to offer the link match services described and claimed herein via API based function calls to the server running the API without having to implement such link match functionality on the third parties own servers. The API may comprise any API type known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to request style Berkeley Sockets Transport Layer Interface TLI Representational State Transfer REST SOAP Remote Procedure Calls RPC Standard Query Language SQL file transfer message delivery and or any combination thereof.

Step may be accomplished by any means or method of receiving a request known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to receiving perhaps at a server an HTTP request from the first website operator comprising information regarding the first website e.g. domain name URL website category website operator contact information etc. along with a request to participate in a link match service and enter a linking relationship with one or more of the other websites participating in the service.

Step may be accomplished by first selecting a second website from the plurality of websites participating in the link match service. The second website may be randomly or systematically selected and a determination made Step whether the first website s search engine ranking would increase if the websites were to be linked. Alternatively all websites in the plurality of websites may be analyzed and the first website operator may be presented with results for one some or all of the websites in the plurality of websites. The determination step Step may be accomplished by any of the methods of calculating a link match score Step described above.

Responsive to a determination that the first website s search engine ranking would improve the first link to the first website may be installed on the second website Step and the second link to the second website may be installed on the first website Step . Where the described and claimed link match service is provided by the hosting provider hosting the first website and the second website the links may be automatically installed directly on the appropriate websites perhaps by uploading the appropriate HTML code into the appropriate webpage file in the website s directory. Alternatively and as described in detail above a first code comprising a first link to the first website may be transmitted to the second website s operator Step and or a second code comprising a second link to the second website may be transmitted to the first website s operator Step for installation on their respective websites.

Once the website profiles and have been generated Steps and the link match score may be calculated Step by determining the degree to which the first website profile correlates with the second website profile as described in detail above. If the link match score indicates that the search engine rank for the first website will increase the first website and second website may be linked Step perhaps as described in detail above with respect to Steps and .

Responsive to a determination that the first link to the first website installed on the second website remains active the first website operator may be notified that the first link is active Step . As non limiting examples Step may be accomplished by transmitting an electronic communication in any of the forms described above to the first website operator or by displaying a list of active links on a control panel webpage accessible only to the first website operator perhaps by user authentication protection on the webpage . Where the first website is linked to a plurality of websites the electronic communication or control panel webpage may list perhaps by URL each of the plurality of websites having active links to the first website .

Responsive to a determination that the first link to the first website installed on the second website remain inactive the first website operator may be notified that the first link is inactive Step perhaps via the same methodologies described in relation to Step e.g. transmitting an electronic communication to the first website operator or by displaying a list of inactive links on a control panel webpage . The second website operator also may be contacted perhaps via an electronic communication and advised that his link to the first website is inactive. The second website operator also may be provided a deadline by which the link to the first website must be restored or perhaps a remedy will be implemented such as deleting one or more links to the second website .

An operator of a first website may decide to improve the search engine ranking of his website by increasing its number of inbound links. To do so he may sign up for a link matching service by navigating via a browser running on his Internet connected client computer to a link match website provided by a link match service provider. There he may sign up for the link match service by among other things providing his contact information name address telephone number business name etc. the URL for his website and a category for his website e.g. automobiles Step .

Software running on the link match service provider s server also communicatively coupled to the Internet may receive the link match request Step and then generate a first website profile Step . For purposes of this illustration the first website profile may comprise the first website s IP address number of inbound links PageRank for the first website Open Directory Project category and ALEXA ranking. To generate the profile a Web crawler may spider the Internet to obtain the profile data which is all available via publically accessible websites and or APIs Step . One generated the first website profile may be stored in the link match service provider s profile database running on its server .

The link match service provider s software then may calculate a link match score Step for a plurality of other website profiles stored in the database that were generated Step when their respective website operators previously signed up for the link match service. The calculated link match score indicates whether the first website s search engine ranking would improve if it were linked to from one or more of the other websites in the profile database . For each such website the server may determine whether it has a different IP address than the first website whether it has a similar Open Directory Project category as the first website its PageRank its ALEXA ranking and its number of inbound links.

For example a website s link match score may be initially set at 50 because the IP addresses are different raised to 60 because the second website has more than one inbound link raised again to 70 because the second website has a PageRank of greater than one raised again to 80 because their ODP assigned categories match but then decreased back to 70 because it has a poor ALEXA ranking. Other websites in the database may have calculated link match scores of for example 20 40 and 60 .

The server may then present link match scores Step to the first website operator by transmitting HTML code via the Internet to his client computer that when rendered in its browser lists link match results e.g. the ranked websites along with their corresponding link match scores as illustrated in perhaps as follows 

The first website operator then may opt to request a linking relationship with a second website having the highest link match score www.website.com in the example perhaps by clicking the link button on the results webpage . When this request is received by the server Step it may transmit a request to the second website operator perhaps by an email to an email address provided by the second website operator when he signed up for the link match service asking whether the second website operator wishes to enter a linking relationship with the first website Step .

If the server subsequently receives an acceptance of the link match request from the second website operator Step perhaps via return email the server may transmit perhaps as an email attachment a first code comprising a first link to the first website to the second website s s operator Step and a second code comprising a second link to the second website to the first website s operator Step for installation on their respective websites.

Once the links are installed on their respective websites by the first and second website operators they may be monitored by the link match service provider perhaps by a Web crawler spidering and scanning the websites to determine whether the links are present active and operational Step . A control panel webpage may be used to notify the website operators whether the links to their respective websites remain active Steps and . If the website operators would like another scan performed they may simply log into their web based account with the link match service provider access the control panel webpage click the scan button and the scan will repeat itself and the control panel webpage may refresh with the results of the most recent scan.

The foregoing embodiments have been presented for the purpose of illustration. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Some embodiments also may relate to systems or apparatus for performing the operations herein. Such apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and perhaps coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Some embodiments of the invention also may relate to a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave where the computer data signal includes any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein. The computer data signal is a product that is presented in a tangible medium or carrier wave and modulated or otherwise encoded in the carrier wave which is tangible and transmitted according to any suitable transmission method.

The language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the inventions be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the accompanying claims.

Thus other embodiments and uses of the above inventions will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the specification and practice of the inventions disclosed herein. The specification and examples given should be considered exemplary only and it is contemplated that the appended claims will cover any other such embodiments or modifications as fall within the true scope of the inventions.

The Abstract accompanying this specification is provided to enable the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and gist of the technical disclosure and in no way intended for defining determining or limiting the present inventions or any of its embodiments.

