---

title: Computerized system and method of recording communications between parties using telecommunications devices
abstract: A computerized system of recording communications between a first party and a second party automatically notifies the second party to the recording of the communication. A request is received at a first telecommunications device, utilized by the first party, to initiate the communications between the parties, either by receiving or placing a call or text message. A unique identifier identifying a second communications device, utilized by the second party, is received by the first telecommunications device. A warning message is then automatically sent to the second communications device that the communications are being recorded. The communications between the devices is then recorded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08406740&OS=08406740&RS=08406740
owner: Kohorts IT Services, LLC
number: 08406740
owner_city: Brighton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110110
---
This application claims the benefit of provisional patent application No. 61 293 407 filed Jan. 8 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Telecommunications devices such as cell phones or smart phones have become commonplace and often necessary fixtures of everyday life. Often these devices are issued by employers to employees for use in carrying on business or to children by parents. As such monitoring of the usage of such devices is often necessary to ensure that the devices are not being misused and or to ensure the safety of the user. However comprehensive monitoring of telecommunications devices as well as assembling data relating to such monitoring remains a challenge. Furthermore the second party to conversations with monitored devices may not be aware that such monitoring is taking place.

Accordingly the subject application discloses a computerized system and method for addressing these difficulties.

The application provides a method of recording communications between a first party using a first telecommunications device and a second party utilizing a second telecommunications device and notifies the second party to the recording of the communication. The method includes the step of receiving a request at the first telecommunications device to initiate the communications between the parties. The method further includes the step of receiving an identifier uniquely identifying the second communications device at the first telecommunications device. A warning message is automatically sent to the second communications device that the communications are being recorded in response to receiving the identifier uniquely identifying the second communications device. The method further includes recording the communications between the first and second communications devices.

By providing a warning message to the second communications device the second party is duly warned that their communications e.g. text messages and or telephone conversations should not be considered private and may be monitored by a third party. Furthermore automatically providing this warning upon the identification of the second communications device assists in compliance with potential or existing laws and or regulations governing recording of telecommunications.

Referring to the Figures wherein like numerals indicate like parts throughout the several views a method of recording communications between a first party and a second party utilizing a computerized system and notifying at least one of the parties to the recording of the communication utilizing the computerized system is shown herein.

The system includes a first telecommunications device utilized by the first party. The first telecommunications device is capable of sending and or receiving character based messages and or audible conversations. The term character based messages includes but is not limited to text messages such as short message service SMS messages. The term audible conversations includes but is not limited to common and ubiquitous telephone conversation.

The first telecommunications device is preferably a mobile phone not separately numbered . The mobile phone is often referred to as a cellular phone cell phone smart phone and or wireless phone as realized by those skilled in the art. Alternatively the first telecommunications device may be implemented as other suitable devices such as a pager personal computer laptop tablet computer book reader or other device capable of sending and or receiving character based messages and or audible conversations.

The first telecommunications device preferably has computing capabilities. Specifically the first telecommunications device includes a processor not shown . The processor may be a microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other device capable of performing numerical calculations and execute software programs as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The first telecommunications device may operate on a mobile phone network . The mobile phone network is often referred to as a cellular phone network or cell phone network as well known to those skilled in the art. The first telecommunications device and mobile phone network may utilize any analog and or digital cellular technology including but not limited to GSM GPRS CDMA EV DO EDGE 3GSM DECT TDMA and iDEN.

Alternatively the first telecommunications device may communicate via a network such as the Internet. For example the first telecommunications device may be implemented as an IP phone or a mobile phone having WiFi connectivity. Of course those skilled in the art will realize other suitable techniques for facilitating communications between the first telecommunications device and other telecommunication devices.

Multiple first telecommunications devices may be utilized by multiple parties and included in the system . However for purposes of readability typically only one first telecommunications device used by a single first party will be described herein.

In the illustrated embodiment a software application not shown resides on the first telecommunications device and is executed by the processor on the first telecommunications device . The application may be loaded onto the first telecommunications device via over the air OTA techniques or other techniques known to those skilled in the art. The application captures transactional data streams or simply transactional data and transmits these transactional data streams as described in greater detail below. The transactional data may be stored in on board memory not separately shown of the processor or in other data storage devices in communications with the processor.

The second party utilizes a second telecommunications device . The second telecommunications device may be a mobile phone a landline phone or any other suitable device capable of sending and or receiving character based messages and or audible conversations. Of course multiple second telecommunications devices may be utilized by multiple parties. However for purposes of readability typically only one second telecommunications device will be described herein.

The system of the illustrated embodiment includes a server computer in communication with the first telecommunications device . Communications between the server computer and the first telecommunications device may be accomplished via the telecommunications network or another network such as the Internet as well known to those skilled in the art.

Specifically the server computer of the illustrated embodiment is implemented as an application server and a data store . Of course multiple server computers with one or more application servers and data stores may alternatively be implemented as realized by those skilled in the art.

In the illustrated embodiment a monitoring acknowledgement request is sent to the first telecommunications device from the server computer in response to the application being loaded onto the first telecommunications device .

This request is typically implemented as a character based message. The system may require confirmation of receipt of the monitoring acknowledgement request by the first party prior to allowing functionality of the first telecommunications device . For example the request may ask do you understand that any use of this device including all voice conversations and text messages may be recorded and utilized by others The system then requires that a confirmation message be sent back to the server computer . For example the confirmation message may be the word Yes or simply the letter Y .

The software application being executed on the first telecommunications device streams the transactional data from the first telecommunications device to the server computer . The data captured by the application on the first telecommunications device and collected by the server computer includes but is not limited to call records both inbound and outbound text messaging data inbound outbound transactions as well as message content and multi media messaging data inbound outbound transactions as well as message content . Typically most data traffic is from the first telecommunications device to the server computer . However the download of the software application to the first telecommunications device as well as commands to remotely lock and wipe the first telecommunications device will be sent from the server computer to the first telecommunications device .

The call records may include data representing all or part of an audible conversation between the first telecommunications device and the second telecommunications device . As such both the first telecommunications device and the server computer a recording component not separately numbered for recording the communications between the first and second parties.

In the illustrated embodiment the application server receives the transmissions of the transactional data from the first telecommunications device and aggregates this transactional data into flat files. These flat files are then collected and pushed to the data store using a mediator also referred to as a mediation bridge not separately numbered . The mediator ensures that all the collected files are backed up archived and distributed to the data store and that the original files on the application server are destroyed.

The data store enriches the transaction records with subscriber profile information that is stored and maintained as master records for each of the subscribers i.e. the first user . The enriched data sets are then made available to data consumers through an exposed application programming interface API layer to facilitate data viewing interaction with the data sets and also data integrations to third party applications.

The data store also allows for the configuration of multiple compliance policies of which any one or more can be deployed against any line of business logical group or individual subscriber i.e. the first user . The system uses an inheritance model to inherit compliance policies or compliance business rules and apply these against groups and subscribers where such groups and subscribers may be assigned multiple compliance policies. This enables advanced configuration of the business rules both for data recording and data viewing .

The data store enriches the transaction records with subscriber profile information that is maintained as master records for the first user. The enriched data sets are then made available to data consumers through an exposed API layer to facilitate data viewing interaction with the data sets and also data integrations to third party applications.

The data store also allows for the configuration of multiple compliance policies of which any one or more can be deployed against any line of business logical group or individual subscriber i.e. the first user . The system uses an inheritance model to inherit compliance policies or compliance business rules and apply these against groups and subscribers where such groups and subscribers may be assigned multiple compliance policies. This enables advanced configuration of the business rules both for data recording and data viewing .

The system includes at least one interface for relaying the content of the data store to a separate storage system to a consumer not numbered or other applicable device not shown . The content may be presented to the consumer in a plurality of forms using any number of techniques known to those skilled in the art. In one instance the content may be presented via a computer . Specifically a web browser running on the computer as shown in . shows a graph not numbered displaying usage of the first telecommunications device while shows a detailed listing of telephone calls made and text messages exchanged using the first telecommunications device .

Furthermore the system may store a list of persons and or organizations to which the first user is not permitted to contact. For example the list e.g. a black list may include the phone numbers of business competitors former employees etc. An alert may be sent to a third party e.g. the computer when communication between the first telecommunications device and a person and or organizations on the list.

Also the system may provide a convenient display of all communications between the first telecommunications device and other telecommunications devices such as a person or organization on the list. For instance the system may display a timeline not shown of each individual communications which allows the consumer to see exactly what form of communication was utilized along with the content of each communication. In one example the system may display on one screen of the computer a phone call received on a first day of a month a text message sent on a second day of a month an email received on a third day of a month and a data file transmitted on a fourth day of a month.

Referring again to the system preferably includes a plurality of firewalls to prevent unauthorized or malicious transfer of data i.e. hacking from the server computer . For instance in the illustrated embodiment a first firewall is implemented between the first telecommunications device and the application server to prevent access of data from the first telecommunications device . Also in the illustrated embodiment a second firewall is implemented between the data store and the separate storage system and a third firewall is implemented between the data store and the consumers via the interface .

The method described below may utilize the system illustrated herein and described above or may utilize other suitable hardware and software solutions. Specifically the method includes the step of receiving a request at the first telecommunications device to initiate the communications between the parties. The request to initiate the communications may be implemented in numerous ways. The request may be made by receiving a character based message from the second telecommunications device at the first telecommunications device . As one example the second user sends a text message to the first user. The request may also be made by receiving an audible conversation request from the second telecommunications device at the first telecommunications device . As an example the second user places a phone call to the first user. Furthermore the request may be made by receiving an input from the first user at the first telecommunications device to initiate communications with the second party . That is the first user simply places a phone call or sends a text message to the second user by entering the phone number of the second user or by another selection process known to those skilled in the art.

The method continues with the step of receiving an identifier uniquely identifying the second party at the first telecommunications device . This identifier is typically the telephone number or phone number of the second telecommunications device . However the identifier may be any other suitable identifier such as but certainly not limited to the International Mobile Equipment Identifier IMEI number an electronic serial number ESN or a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card number.

The method includes automatically sending a warning message to the second party. This warning message preferably indicates that the communications are being recorded. That is the second party is warned that anything that they say send text hear or otherwise transmit or receive may be recorded by a third party. Specifically the warning message is sent to the second telecommunications device such that it may be received by the second party.

The warning message may be a character based message an audible message or implemented using another appropriate technique as known to those skilled in the art. In the illustrated embodiment the warning message is sent as a character based message when the request to initiate communication is by receipt of a character based message at the first telecommunications device or by sending a character based message from the first telecommunications device . The character based message may be stored on the first telecommunications device and transmitted to the second transmission device at least in part via the mobile phone network . Alternatively the character based message may be stored remotely from the first telecommunications device . For example the character based message may be stored by and sent from the server computer to the second telecommunications device . Furthermore the first user may be notified e.g. with a character based message that the warning message has been sent to the second telecommunications device .

Also in the illustrated embodiment the warning message is sent as an audible message when the request to initiate communication is by receiving an audible conversation request from the second telecommunications device at the first telecommunications device or by initiating an audible conversation request at the first telecommunications device to the second telecommunications device . Said plainly when a telephone call is received or is being sent the warning message is an audible message i.e. a voice message that is played to the second telecommunications device stating that all conversations utilizing the first telecommunications device will be recorded. The audible message may be stored and sent by the first telecommunications device to the second telecommunications device . Alternatively the first and second telecommunications devices may be connected to a third entity not separately numbered such as the server computer in a conference call fashion to play the audible message to the second user using the second telecommunications device . Of course the first user using the first telecommunications device may also listen to the audible message based on the particular configuration of the system .

In one embodiment the warning message is sent to the second telecommunications device in response to receiving the identifier uniquely identifying the second telecommunications device . That is the receipt of the identifier triggers the warning message to be sent. In another embodiment the system verifies whether or not a warning message has previously been sent to the second party i.e. whether or not a warning message has already been sent to the second telecommunications device . If a warning message has not already been sent then the warning message is sent but if the warning message has already been sent then the warning message need not be sent again. That is the warning message is sent in response to determining that the second telecommunications device has not previously been sent a warning message.

The conversations between the parties i.e. the character based messages and audible conversations are recorded by the server computer as described above. Specifically in the illustrated embodiment the first communication device transmits data corresponding to the communications between the parties to the server computer for collection by the application storage and storage by the data store .

The system may require confirmation of receipt of the warning message by the second party prior to recording of the conversation and in order to initiate recording of the conversation. Said another way the warning message may include a request to confirm acceptance of the warning message. For example the warning message may ask do you understand that your current conversation with this party may be recorded and future conversations may also be recorded When the warning message is sent via character based message the system may request that a confirmation message be sent back to the first communications device or other originator of the warning message. The confirmation message may be the word Yes or simply the letter Y Likewise when the warning message is an audible message the system may request that the second party say the word Yes or press a specific number on a keypad not shown of the second telecommunications device .

The system may also include a storage unit not separately numbered for storing the warning message to be sent to the second telecommunications device . The storage unit may be implemented as the processor of the first telecommunications device the server computer or other suitable component for storing data and or audible messages.

The present invention has been described herein in an illustrative manner and it is to be understood that the terminology which has been used is intended to be in the nature of words of description rather than of limitation. Obviously many modifications and variations of the invention are possible in light of the above teachings. The invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described within the scope of the appended claims.

