---

title: Internally-cooled centrifugal compressor with cooling jacket formed in the diaphragm
abstract: An internally-cooled centrifugal compressor having a shaped casing and a diaphragm disposed within the shaped casing having a gas side and a coolant side so that heat from a gas flowing though the gas side is extracted via the coolant side. An impeller disposed within the diaphragm has a stage inlet on one side and a stage outlet for delivering a pressurized gas to a downstream connection. The coolant side of the diaphragm includes at least one passageway for directing a coolant in a substantially counter-flow direction from the flow of gas through the gas side.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08814509&OS=08814509&RS=08814509
owner: Dresser-Rand Company
number: 08814509
owner_city: Olean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110114
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 402 983 filed Sep. 9 2010.

This invention was made with government support under Government Contract No. DE FC26 05NT42650 awarded by the US Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments of the disclosure are generally related to systems for isothermal compression. Specific embodiments of the disclosure relate to an internally cooled centrifugal compressor with greatly increased heat transfer properties. A more specific embodiment of the disclosure relates to a compressor utilizing a cooled diaphragm section with internal cooling passages through the diffuser and return channel vanes such that cooling flows in a substantially counter flow direction of gas flow.

Compressors are well known in the art with their primary function being to increase the pressure of a gas. It is also well known that compression of a gas not only increases pressure but also causes heating of the gas by the work of compression. Thus a gas is considerably hotter at the discharge than at the inlet of the compressor. In multistage compressors for subsequent stages this increase in heat or temperature requires greater heat rise for a given pressure ratio which requires more power than compressing a cool gas.

Isothermal compression has been used as a way of maintaining a constant temperature during the gas compression process which in turn reduces the compression power required. However typical isothermal compression processes will compress the gas in steps with intercooling between these steps with the downside of increased complexity and size of the compressor apparatus.

Thus a need exists for an efficient means of compressing a gas that maximizes heat transfer while also minimizing aerodynamic pressure losses. A means of achieving isothermal compression of a gas without the size and piping requirements of prior art isothermal compressors would provide numerous advantages.

The following summary is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the present disclosure and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the various aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

It is therefore one aspect of the present disclosure to provide for an improved compressor apparatus. It is another aspect of the present disclosure to provide for an internally cooled compressor that allows isothermal compression of a gas. It is a further aspect of the present disclosure to provide for an improved isothermal compressor that maximizes heat transfer while not introducing additional aerodynamic losses in the gas flow path. It should be noted that the term isothermal also includes operation at a semi isothermal capacity without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

The aforementioned aspects and other objectives and advantages can now be achieved as described herein. Briefly disclosed is an isothermal compressor with a cooling jacket structure formed in the diaphragm of the compressor. With the isothermal compressor of the present disclosure cooling flow is routed through both the diffuser and return channel vanes and the bulb section of the diaphragm as a working fluid or gas is compressed through the diffuser and return channel. In one embodiment heat transfer is achieved using diffuser vanes with internal cooling holes through which the cooling flow is channeled. The vanes also serve to increase pressure recovery in the diffuser. The return channel vanes may also define cooling holes that feed cooling flow into a hollow plenum arranged inside the center bulb. As the gas passes by the cooling flow coursing through the cooling holes of both the diffuser and return channel vanes and the center bulb heat is extracted from the working fluid without additional drop in pressure for the gas.

In one embodiment the walls for the gas flow path are maintained smooth while the flow path for the cooling fluid is roughened in order to maximize turbulence and heat transfer. Accordingly in at least one embodiment all of the cooling holes defined within the diffuser and return channel vanes may be roughened to increase heat transfer. Surface roughness may be achieved by tapping a screw thread in each hole.

According to still another embodiment an isothermal compressor is disclosed that has an internally cooled diaphragm with large structural vanes that increase the strength of the diaphragm and also increase the turbulence of cooling liquid flow resulting in improved heat transfer.

Embodiments of the disclosure generally provide an internally cooled centrifugal compressor. The compressor may include a shaped casing having a stage inlet for an upstream gas connection and a stage outlet for a downstream gas connection and a diaphragm arranged within said shaped casing and having a gas side and a coolant side so that heat from a gas flowing through the gas side is extracted via said coolant side wherein the coolant side includes a cooling agent flow path for directing a cooling agent in a substantially counter flow direction from a flow of the gas through the gas side.

Embodiments of the disclosure may further provide an internally cooled centrifugal compressor diaphragm. The compressor may include a rotatable impeller centrally disposed within the diaphragm a diffuser fluidly coupled to an outlet of the impeller and having a plurality of diffuser vanes arranged therein each diffuser vane having at least one diffuser conduit defined therein and a return channel fluidly coupled to the diffuser and having a plurality of return channel vanes arranged therein each return channel vane having at least one return conduit defined therein. The compressor may further include a cooling jacket proximally located about the diffuser and the return channel the cooling jacket having a first chamber and a second chamber and a center bulb defined within the diaphragm and interposed between the diffuser and the return channel the center bulb being in fluid communication with the first chamber via the at least one return conduit and in fluid communication with the second chamber via the at least one diffuser conduit.

Embodiments of the disclosure may further provide a method of cooling a working fluid in a centrifugal compressor. The method may include circulating the working fluid through a diffuser having a plurality of diffuser vanes arranged therein each diffuser vane having at least one diffuser conduit defined therein receiving the working fluid in a return channel fluidly coupled to the diffuser and having a plurality of return channel vanes arranged therein each return channel vane having at least one return conduit defined therein circulating a cooling agent from a first chamber into a center bulb interposed between the diffuser and the return channel the first chamber being located adjacent the return channel and in fluid communication with the center bulb via the at least one return conduit and circulating the cooling agent from the center bulb to a second chamber the second chamber being located adjacent the diffuser and in fluid communication with the center bulb via the at least one diffuser conduit whereby as the cooling agent is circulated it removes heat from the working fluid.

It is to be understood that the following disclosure describes several exemplary embodiments for implementing different features structures or functions of the invention. Exemplary embodiments of components arrangements and configurations are described below to simplify the present disclosure however these exemplary embodiments are provided merely as examples and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Additionally the present disclosure may repeat reference numerals and or letters in the various exemplary embodiments and across the Figures provided herein. This repetition is for the purpose of simplicity and clarity and does not in itself dictate a relationship between the various exemplary embodiments and or configurations discussed in the various Figures. Moreover the formation of a first feature over or on a second feature in the description that follows may include embodiments in which the first and second features are formed in direct contact and may also include embodiments in which additional features may be formed interposing the first and second features such that the first and second features may not be in direct contact. Finally the exemplary embodiments presented below may be combined in any combination of ways i.e. any element from one exemplary embodiment may be used in any other exemplary embodiment without departing from the scope of the disclosure.

Additionally certain terms are used throughout the following description and claims to refer to particular components. As one skilled in the art will appreciate various entities may refer to the same component by different names and as such the naming convention for the elements described herein is not intended to limit the scope of the invention unless otherwise specifically defined herein. Further the naming convention used herein is not intended to distinguish between components that differ in name but not function. Additionally in the following discussion and in the claims the terms including and comprising are used in an open ended fashion and thus should be interpreted to mean including but not limited to. All numerical values in this disclosure may be exact or approximate values unless otherwise specifically stated. Accordingly various embodiments of the disclosure may deviate from the numbers values and ranges disclosed herein without departing from the intended scope. Furthermore as it is used in the claims or specification the term or is intended to encompass both exclusive and inclusive cases i.e. A or B is intended to be synonymous with at least one of A and B unless otherwise expressly specified herein.

Referring to a cross sectional view of a centrifugal compressor according to one or more embodiments is shown and denoted generally as . The compressor may be used to compress a gas or working fluid. Although the compressor is shown with only one stage it will appreciated that the compressor can be utilized in a multi stage configuration where substantially similar compressor stages are coupled together axially with each stage providing a cooler gas to a subsequent downstream stage.

There are many applications for the use of a centrifugal compressor such as for example the compression of COassociated with carbon capture and sequestration projects and other similar attempts to reduce emissions while conserving energy. As will be described herein the compressor provides significant reduction in the required power associated with compression of all gases including CO by performing near or at isothermal compression. Accordingly the compressor may reduce the need for intercoolers or eliminate the need for intercoolers altogether.

In exemplary operation the gas travels through the compressor generally in the direction of arrow from a stage inlet to a stage outlet . The stage inlet provides a pipe connection from a source of gas to a housing or shaped casing containing the various compressor components. Likewise stage outlet provides a pipe connection to a downstream system for receiving the pressurized gas. The compressor includes a rotating impeller arranged within the shaped casing and configured to force the gas to the tip of the impeller thereby increasing the velocity of the gas entering the diffuser . A diaphragm section or diaphragm as the terms shall be used interchangeably includes all of the various components contained within the back half or downstream end of the shaped casing and forms the gas flow path of compressor . In particular the diaphragm includes a diffuser fluidly coupled to a return channel . The diffuser is configured to convert the velocity energy of the gas received from the impeller to pressure energy resulting in the compression of the gas. The return channel is configured to receive the compressed gas from the diffuser and eject the compressed gas from the gas flow path via the stage outlet or otherwise inject the compressed gas into a succeeding compressor stage not shown .

Referring now to and the diaphragm includes a plurality of diffuser vanes are arranged within the diffuser and a plurality of return channel vanes are arranged within the return channel . Moreover the diaphragm encompasses both a gas side and a coolant side. As illustrated in the gas side may generally refer to or include the gas passageway defined by a combination of the diffuser and the return channel . On the other hand the coolant side may generally include a cooling jacket proximally located about or otherwise surrounding the gas side i.e. adjacent both the diffuser and the return channel . As will be described in more detail below with reference to the coolant side may further include a center bulb . The cooling jacket forms a barrier through which a cooling agent can flow for extracting heat from the pressurized gas flowing through the diffuser and the return channel . According to the disclosure the fact that the cooling jacket is contained within the diaphragm of the compressor provides an efficient way of extracting heat from the pressurized gas flowing in the gas side.

As shown in the cooling agent may be configured to follow a flow path represented by arrow which generally follows a substantially counter flow path in a direction similar to for example a counter flow heat exchanger. In particular the cooling agent flow direction may be substantially opposite that of the gas flow direction . In one embodiment the cooling agent flow path may originate in a first or right chamber defined by the cooling jacket . From the right chamber the cooling agent may be fed through one or more return conduits defined or otherwise formed in the return channel vanes of the return channel . The return conduits may feed the cooling agent into a center bulb defined by the diaphragm . The center bulb may include a plenum adapted to feed the cooling agent into one or more diffuser conduits defined or otherwise formed in the diffuser vanes see . The cooling agent is ultimately gathered in a second or left chamber defined by the cooling jacket . From the left chamber the cooling agent exits the compressor to be eventually recirculated back to the right chamber in order to start the cooling agent flow path over again.

In one or more embodiments the cooling agent may include a coolant such as ambient water chilled water or ethylene glycol. It will be appreciated however that the cooling agent is not limited to liquids only as gases could also be used as a suitable coolant source. In one embodiment the cooling agent exiting the left chamber may be circulated through one or more heat exchangers before being reintroduced in the right chamber .

Referring now to the domain in which the cooling agent is made to flow is shown and denoted generally as . As illustrated the right chamber is fluidly coupled to the left chamber via a network of return and diffuser conduits and the center bulb .

It has been found that maximizing the surface area of the cooling domain provides the most efficient transfer of heat from the pressurized gas flowing in the gas side to the cooling agent flowing in the coolant side. Consequently the surface area of the cooling domain is maximized through the implementation of return conduits and diffuser conduits within the return channel vanes and diffuser vanes respectively. In this way an internal means of heat extraction is provided to a single stage or multi stage compressor apparatus such as the compressor described herein.

It should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited to a particular configuration of diaphragm such as the diaphragm described herein. Instead the current disclosure encompasses unique and novel aspects relating to the efficient operation of a compressor such as compressor where internal cooling is provided by maximizing the surface area of the cooling domain side of the diaphragm section inside the compressor without negatively impacting gas pressure. Thus Applicants of the present disclosure have discovered that various features can be utilized within the diaphragm section to improve efficiency and avoid negative impacts on compressor performance.

One such feature involves the physical aspects of the diaphragm section . For example it has been discovered by Applicants that maintaining the gas flow path within a substantially smooth walled structure while directing the cooling agent through a cooling agent flow path having a roughened walled structure maximizes turbulence in the coolant side and heat transfer while keeping pressure drop on the gas side identical to a standard non cooled compressor design. As used herein a smooth walled structure generally refers to a diaphragm that has not been intentionally roughened i.e. does not create significant turbulence with the gas fluid flowing thereby so as to result in a diaphragm having walls that are coarse jagged or rugged. Moreover as used herein a roughened walled structure includes but is not limited to threading the return and diffuser conduits so as to generate coarsely threaded holes that make a tortuous flow path for the cooling agent flowing therethrough. The term roughened walled structure may also include or otherwise refer to the implementation or addition of structural vanes within the coolant side of the diaphragm as will be described in more detail below with reference to .

The diaphragm including the cooling jacket center bulb diffuser vanes and return channel vanes may be manufactured via a variety of manufacturing processes. For example in one manufacturing process the diaphragm is fabricated by first machining the individual components such as by computer numerically controlled CNC milling techniques. The machined pieces may then be welded together heat treated and then final machined to smooth each weldment. Because of the complexity of the diaphragm and its components the diaphragm may be machined and welded throughout multiple stages. For instance the bulb pieces may be machined in two sections one section containing the diffuser vanes and the other section containing the return channel vanes . These two sections can be welded together to complete the bulb section . Moreover the main structural sections of the cooling jacket may also be machined using two pieces for each half one piece for the diffuser vane side and another for the return channel side. These two sections may be welded to the bulb section at both the diffuser and return channel vanes and may then be welded to each other at the perimeter.

It will be appreciated however that other forms of manufacturing may be employed without departing from the scope of the disclosure. For example it is also contemplated herein to cast the diaphragm as a single component such as by sand casting plaster mold casting investment casting or die casting.

Referring to illustrated is a portion of the coolant side of the diaphragm showing a plurality of diffuser conduits having coarsely drawn threads defined therein. It will be appreciated that the diffuser conduits shown in may equally be depicted as return conduits which are substantially similar but not necessarily geometrically identical to the diffuser conduits . The use of coarsely threaded holes increases the turbulence of the cooling agent flowing therein and also increases the surface area of each conduit or . Consequently the overall heat transfer from the gas in the gas side to the coolant side is enhanced. In at least one embodiment threading the conduits or may also prove advantageous by simplifying the manufacturing process as compared to other turbulence generators.

Referring now to illustrated is a schematic of a method of cooling a gas or a working fluid being compressed in a centrifugal compressor. The method may include circulating the working fluid through a diffuser as at . In one embodiment the diffuser has a plurality of diffuser vanes arranged therein and each diffuser vane has at least one diffuser conduit defined therein for the circulation of a cooling agent. The working fluid may be received in a return channel as at . The return channel may be fluidly coupled to the diffuser and have a plurality of return channel vanes arranged therein. Similar to the diffuser vanes each return channel vane may have at least one return conduit defined therein for the circulation of the cooling agent.

A cooling agent may then be circulated from a first chamber into a center bulb as at . The center bulb may be interposed between the diffuser and the return channel and the first chamber may be adjacent to or otherwise surrounding the return channel on at least one side thereof. Moreover the first chamber may be in fluid communication with the center bulb via the return conduits defined within the return channel vanes. The cooling agent may further be circulated from the center bulb to a second chamber as at . The second chamber may be located adjacent to or otherwise surrounding the diffuser on at least one side thereof. Furthermore the second chamber may be in fluid communication with the center bulb via the diffuser conduits defined within the diffuser vanes.

Accordingly as the cooling agent is circulated from the first chamber to the center bulb and from the center bulb to the second chamber heat is constantly being transferred from the working fluid to the cooling agent thereby resulting in the overall cooling of the working fluid. As will be appreciated the heat transfer may occur within the return vanes or diffuser vanes as the cooling agent passes therethrough but may also occur within the first and second chambers as heat is passed from the return channel and diffuser into the first and second chambers respectively. Moreover heat transfer may occur in the cooling agent flowing in the center bulb.

The foregoing has outlined features of several embodiments so that those skilled in the art may better understand the present disclosure. Those skilled in the art should appreciate that they may readily use the present disclosure as a basis for designing or modifying other processes and structures for carrying out the same purposes and or achieving the same advantages of the embodiments introduced herein. Those skilled in the art should also realize that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure and that they may make various changes substitutions and alterations herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

