---

title: Systems and methods for rating a content based on trends
abstract: A system for and method of rating a content is presented. The method may include receiving first user data associated with one or more contents for a first predetermined time period and second user data associated with the one or more contents for a second predetermined time period. The method may also include determining a first average of the first user data associated with the one or more contents for the first predetermined time period and a second average of the second user data associated with the one or more contents for the second predetermined time period. The method may further include determining a variance between the first average of the first user data associated with the one or more contents for the first predetermined time period and the second average of the second user data associated with the one or more contents for the second predetermined time period. The method may additionally include determining trend value of the one or more contents based at least in part on the variance between the first average of the first user data associated with the one or more contents for the first predetermined time period and the second average of the second user data associated with the one or more contents for the second predetermined time period.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583786&OS=08583786&RS=08583786
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08583786
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110121
---
In the highly competitive content provider industry content providers have much interest in identifying which contents users are interested in and trends of users interest in content. Conventionally ratings groups have users complete detailed surveys to gather information about what content the users are interested in. The ratings groups then calculate a rating for each of the contents based on the number of users is interested in a particular content. Also rating groups monitor a number of times a keyword has been mentioned in contents in order to identify a trend in the contents. Ratings surveys and monitoring services however may not accurately reflect what contents users are interested in over time at least due to a limited sample size limited time period limited parameters in consideration and errors in users completing the surveys.

An exemplary embodiment provides a system and a method for rating a content based at least in part on a trend of the content. For example a trend based rating system may receive user data associated with a content for various predetermined time periods from a plurality of work stations. The trend based rating system may receive user data associated with a content during a first predetermined time period. The trend based rating system may also receive user data associated with a content during a second predetermined time period. For example the user data may include a number of times a content may be viewed by a user or an amount of time a content may be viewed by a user during a predetermined period of time.

The trend based rating system may determine an average e.g. a simple moving average of a number of times a content may be viewed by users during a first predetermined time period. Also the trend based rating system may determine an average e.g. a simple moving average of a number of times a content may be viewed by users during a second predetermined time period. The trend based rating system may determine a variance between the average of the number of times a content may be viewed by user during the first predetermine time period and the average of the number of times a content may be viewed by user during the second predetermine time period.

The trend based rating system may determine an average e.g. a simple moving average of a weight of a content during a first predetermined time period. The weight of a content may be defined as an amount of time a content is viewed by the user per visit multiply by a trend weight. The trend weight may be calculated by an amount of time a user may view the content per visit divided by a number of times a content may be visited by users per day. The trend based rating system may determine the average e.g. simple moving average of a weight of a content during a second predetermined time period. The trend based rating system may determine a variance between the average of a weight of a content during the first predetermined time period and the average of a weight of a content during the second predetermined time period.

The trend rating system may determine a trend value of a content by multiplying the variance between the average of the number of times a content may be viewed by user during the first predetermine time period and the average of the number of times a content may be viewed by user during the second predetermine time period with the variance between the average of a weight of a content during the first predetermined time period and the average of a weight of a content during the second predetermined time period. For example if the trend value of a content is low the trend rating system may determine that the content may not be trending e.g. neutral trending and may assign a lower rating. If the trend value of a content is high the trend rating system may determine that the content may not be trending and may assign a lower rating.

The trend rating system may calculate the trend of a content in a predetermined time period based at least in part on the received user data. In an exemplary embodiment the trend rating system may calculate an average e.g. a simple moving average of a number of times a content may be viewed by users during a predetermined time period. In another exemplary embodiment the trend rating system may calculate an average weight e.g. a simple moving average of a content by multiplying a number of times a content may be viewed by the user by a trending weight of a content. The trending weight of a content may be calculated by dividing the viewing time of the content by the user by a number of times a content may be viewed by the user during the predetermined time period. The trend rating system may determine a trending value for a content based at least in part on the average of a number of times a content may be viewed by a user and the average weight of a content during a predetermined time period.

Content as used herein may refer to multimedia that uses for example one or more of text audio graphics and video. For example content may include a television program having commercial advertisements inserted therein or on demand programming. The content may also include audio video music interactive content time shifted content photos websites banners a webpage recipes instructions advertisements long advertisements e.g. longer than the traditional 30 second spots used in television programs text interactive advertisements. Video on Demand VoD content Video on Demand VoD advertising user generated content broadband content advanced advertisements additional content that the viewer selects to view and or combinations thereof.

The trend rating system may include one or more servers. For example the trend rating system may include a UNIX based server Windows 2000 Server Microsoft IIS server Apache HTTP server API server Java sever Java Servlet API server ASP server PHP server HTTP server Mac OS X server Oracle server IP server or other independent server to receive and monitor user data from a plurality of work stations N . Also the trend rating system may include one or more Internet Protocol IP network server or public switch telephone network PSTN server. The trend rating system may receive user data from the plurality of work stations N via the communication network .

The trend rating system may include one or more storage devices including without limitation paper card storage punched card tape storage paper tape magnetic tape disk storage gramophone record floppy disk hard disk ZIP disk holographic molecular memory. The one or more computer readable media such as one or more storage devices may also include without limitation optical disc CD ROM CD R CD RW DVD DVD R DVD RW DVD R DVD RW DVD RAM Blu ray Minidisc HVD and Phase change Dual storage device. The one or more storage devices may further include without limitation magnetic bubble memory magnetic drum core memory core rope memory thin film memory twistor memory flash memory memory card semiconductor memory solid state semiconductor memory or any other like mobile storage devices.

The communication network may be coupled to the trend rating system and the plurality of work stations N . The communication network may be a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example the communication network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network e.g. operating in Band C Band Ku or Band Ka a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS. Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal. In addition the communication network may include without limitation telephone line fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 802.3 wide area network WAN local area network LAN or global network such as the Internet. The communication network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof.

The communication network may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Although the communication network is depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments the communication network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example a service provider network the Internet a broadcaster s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

The plurality of work stations N may be a computer a personal computer a laptop a cellular communication device a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin system a fat system a network appliance an Internet browser or other any other device that may be in communication with the plurality of content providers N via the communication network .

The content providers N may include one or more servers to provide contents to the plurality of workstations N via the communication network . For example the content provider may include a UNIX based server Windows 2000 Server. Microsoft. IIS server Apache HTTP server API server Java sever Java Servlet API server ASP server PHP server HTTP server Mac OS X server Oracle server IP server or other independent server to provide one or more contents to the plurality of work stations N . Also the plurality of content providers N may include one or more Internet Protocol IP network server or public switch telephone network PSTN server.

The plurality of content providers N may include one or more storage devices including without limitation paper card storage punched card tape storage paper tape magnetic tape disk storage gramophone record floppy disk hard disk ZIP disk holographic molecular memory. The one or more storage devices may also include without limitation optical disc CD ROM CD R CD RW. DVD DVD R DVD RW DVD R DVD RW DVD RAM Blu ray Minidisc HVD and Phase change Dual storage device. The one or more storage devices may further include without limitation magnetic bubble memory magnetic drum core memory core rope memory thin film memory twistor memory flash memory memory card semiconductor memory solid state semiconductor memory or any other like mobile storage devices.

The input output I O module may include routers repeater antennas or other transceiver device for transmitting data to and receiving data from the plurality of work stations N or the plurality of content providers N . For example the input output I O module may receive user data from the plurality of content providers . The input output I O module may establish a communication link with the plurality of content providers and receive user data from the plurality of content providers. In another exemplary embodiment the input output I O module may receive user data directly from the plurality of work stations N . The input output I O module may establish a communication link with the plurality of work stations N and receive user data from the plurality of work stations N . The user data may include information associated with a content viewed by a user associated with a work station . For example the information associated with the content may include address information associated with the content e.g. uniform resource identifiers URI uniform resource locators URL or other identification information to the content. The user data may also include a number of times a user may view a content an amount of time the user spent viewing a content and other user viewing histories associated with a content.

The input output I O module may preprocess the user data received from the plurality of work stations N or the plurality of content providers N e.g. filter sort format and aggregate . In an exemplary embodiment the preprocessing of the user data received by the input output I O module may include filtering the user data and eliminating erroneous or defective user data sorting the user data formatting the user data into desired format e.g. identify various portions of the user data and aggregating the user data from the plurality of work stations N or the plurality of content providers N .

The user data may be transferred from the input output I O module to the processing module for processing. The processing module may process the user data to perform various calculations in order to determine a trend value of a content. The processing module may include a processor or a plurality of sub analytical modules having a processor to perform various calculations in order to determine a trend value of a content based on user data. For example the processing module may identify user data associated with a content and user data associated with various predetermined time periods. The processing module may determine an average e.g. a simple moving average of a number of times a content may be viewed by users during a first predetermined time period. The predetermined time period may be based at least in part on various parameters. In an exemplary embodiment the predetermined time period may be based at least in part on a weekend a week a month a year a holiday a festival or other user defined time periods. The processing module may determine an average e.g. a simple moving average of a number of time the content may be viewed by users during a second predetermined time period. For example the first predetermined time period may be different from the second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be 50 days and the second predetermined time period may be 200 days.

The processing module may determined a variance between the average of a number of times a content may be viewed by users during the first predetermined time period and the average of a number of times the content may be viewed by users during the second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may apply an Euclidean algorithm to determine a variance the average of a number of times a content may be viewed by users during the first predetermined time period and the average of a number of times the content may be viewed by users during the second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment if the variance between the simple moving average of a number of times a content may be viewed by users during the first predetermined time period and the simple moving average of a number of times the content may be viewed by users during the second predetermined time period is small then the processing module may determine that the content is trending and may provide a higher trend value. In another exemplary embodiment if the variance between the simple moving average of a number of times a content may be viewed by users during the first predetermined time period and the simple moving average of a number of times the content may be viewed by users during the second predetermined time period is large then the processing module may determine that the content is not trending and may provide a lower trend value.

The processing module may determine an average e.g. a simple moving average of a weight of a content during a first predetermined time period. The weight of a content may be defined by multiplying an amount of time a content is viewed by the user per visit during a predetermined time period by the trend weight of a content during the predetermined time period. The trend weight of a content may be calculated by dividing the viewing time of the content by the user during the predetermined time period by a number of times a content may be viewed by a user during a predetermined time period. The processing module may determined an average e.g. a simple moving average of a weight of a content during a second predetermined time period. For example the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period may be different. In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be 50 days and the second predetermined time period may be 200 days.

The processing module may determined a variance between the average of a weight of a content during the first predetermined time period and the average of a weight of the content during the second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may apply an Euclidean algorithm to determine a variance between the average of a weight of a content during the first predetermined time period and the average of a weight of the content during the second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment if the variance between the average of a weight of a content during the first predetermined time period and the average of a weight of the content during the second predetermined time period is small then the processing module may determine that the content is trending and may provide a higher trend value. In another exemplary embodiment if the variance between the simple moving average of the weight of a content during the first predetermined time period and the simple moving average of the weight of the content during the second predetermined time period is large then the processing module may determine that the content is not trending and may provide a lower trend value.

The processing module may determine a trend value of a content. For example the processing module may determine the trend value of a content by multiplying the variance between the average of a number of times a content may be viewed by users during the first predetermined time period and the average of a number of times a content may be viewed by users during the second predetermined time period with the variance between the average of a weight of a content during the first predetermined time period and the average of a weight of a content during the second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment if the trend value of a content is small then the processing module may determine that the content is trending. In another exemplary embodiment if the trend value of a content is large then the processing module may determine that the content is not trending.

In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the database module to identify user data associated with a plurality of contents during various predetermined time periods. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may identify the user data provided by the plurality of work stations N or the plurality of content providers N . The processing module may access the database module to identify the user data based at least in part on the content. For example the processing module may search the database module to identify the user data based at least in part on the address information e.g. URL or URI associated with the content. The processing module may access the database module at predetermined periodic intervals. The predetermined periodic intervals may be a second a minute an hour a day a week a month a year or a user defined predetermined time periods. For example the processing module may periodically access the database module to obtain user data stored in the database module . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the database module at the end of a first predetermined time period to obtain user data stored in the database module associated with the first predetermined time period. In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the database module at the end of a second predetermined time period to obtain user data stored in the database module associated with the second predetermined time period.

In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may periodically update the trend value of a content based at least in part on a trending of the content. The processing module may update the trend value of a content every minute hour day week month a year or other user predetermined time periods. In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may update the trend value of content based at least in part on received user data. For example the processing module may receive updated user data from a plurality of work stations N and a plurality of content providers N and may update a trend value of the content based at least in part on the updated user data. The processing module may update a trend value of a plurality of contents based at least in part on the user data associated with a plurality of contents. In other exemplary embodiments the processing module may update a trend value of a content based least in part on different time periods. For example the processing module may update a trend value of the content based at least in part on a different predetermined time periods.

The presentation module may provide an interface between users associated with the trend rating system users associated with the plurality of work stations N and the user associated with the plurality of content providers N . The presentation module may include a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface to receive one or more queries requests from the user associated with the trend rating system and to provide a trend value of a content to the user associated with the trend rating system . Also the presentation module may provide a trend value of a content to the users associated with the plurality of work stations N . Further the presentation module may provide a trend value of a content to users associated with the plurality of content providers N . The presentation module may provide a separate or a unified graphical user interface. The presentation module may include an Application Programming Interface API to interact with the plurality of work stations N or the plurality of content providers N . In an exemplary embodiment the presentation module may present one or more graphical contents or displays to the user associated with the trend rating system the user associated with the plurality of work stations N or the users associated with the plurality of content providers N of a trend value of a content.

In another exemplary embodiment the presentation module may receive one or more queries requests from a plurality of content providers N . In response to receiving the one or more queries requests from a user associated with a content provider the presentation module may provide the one or more queries requests to the input output I O module the processing module the database module the work station list module and the content list module . For example the presentation module may receive one or more queries requests from the user associated with the work station for a trend value of a content. In response to receiving the one or more queries requests from the user associated with the content provider the presentation module may provide the one or more queries requests to the input output I O module the processing module the database module the work station list module and or the content list module to provide a trend value of a content to the content provider .

In other exemplary embodiments the presentation module may receive one or more queries requests from users associated with the plurality of work stations N to provide a trend value of a content. For example a user may provide a request to the presentation module to provide trend value of a content to the work station associated with the user. In an exemplary embodiment a user may provide one or more queries requests to obtain a trend value of one of the plurality of contents based at least in part on the uniform resource identifiers URIs or uniform resource locators URLs associated with the content. In another exemplary embodiment a user may provide a request to the presentation module for an updated value of a content.

The database module may store and manage user data and or data identifier information associated with the user data. The database module may provide an interface e.g. a uniform interface for other modules within the trend rating system and may write read and search data stored in one or more repositories or databases. The database module may also perform other functions such as but not limited to concurrent access backup and archive functions. Due to limited amount of storing space the database module may compress store transfer or discard data stored within after a period of time e.g. a year. The database module may provide user data associated with a content to the processing module . For example the database module may receive user data identifier information from the processing module and provide user data associated with the user data identifier information to the processing module .

The database module may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to modules and or . The database module may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS or other computer accessible storage. In one or more embodiments database module may be a database such as an Oracle database a Microsoft SQL Server database a DB2 database a MySQL database a Sybase database an object oriented database a hierarchical database or other database. The database module may utilize flat file structures for storage of data.

The work station list module may provide a directory or list of the plurality of work stations N . The work station list module may store address information associated with the plurality of work stations N . The work station list module may format the address information of the plurality of work stations N into desired format. In an exemplary embodiment the desired format for storing the address information associated with the plurality of work stations N may include tables hash tables search trees matrix spread sheets models array structure linear representation or other representations of the directory of address information of the plurality of work stations N . For example the work station list module may include one or more databases to store a directory or list of address information associated with the plurality of work stations N . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the work station list module to identify address information e.g. uniform resource identifiers URIs or uniform resource locators URLs private electronic mail addresses or other address information associated with the work station .

The work station list module may track user data received from the plurality of work stations N . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the work station list module to obtain address information associated with a work station to obtain user data associated with the work station . The processing module may provide trend value of a content to the plurality of work stations N simultaneously. After completion of providing a trend value of a content to a first work station the processing module may access the work station list module to obtain address information associated with a second work station . The processing module may provide a trend value of a content requested by a user associated with the second work station to the second work station . The processing module may continue to obtain address information associated with the plurality of work stations N until all the work stations N receive the trend value of a content requested by each of the plurality of work stations N .

The content list module may include database to store one or more content identifier information of contents provided by the plurality of content providers N monitored by the trend rating system . The content list module may also include database to store information associated with the plurality of content providers N . In an exemplary embodiment the content list module may store address information e.g. URL or URI associated with the contents provided by the plurality of content providers N monitored by the trend rating system . The plurality of content providers N may access the content list module to update the content identifier information associated with the contents monitored by the trend rating system . The content list module may monitor various contents provided by the plurality of content providers N . For example the content list module may track various contents provided by each of the plurality of content providers N . The content list module may provide content identifier information to the input output I O module in order to receive user data associated with the content having the content identifier information. The content list module may provide content identifier information to the database module in order to store user data corresponding to the content identifier information.

In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the content list module to search for content identifier information. For example the processing module may access the content list module to verify whether a trend value requested corresponding to a content is monitored by the trend rating system . The processing module may periodically access the content list module to search for the content identifier information. The processing module may verify whether the content identifier information provided by the trend value request matches the content identifier information stored in the content list module .

At block the method for rating a content based at least in part on a trend value of the content may begin.

At block user data associated with a content may be provided to the trend rating system . For example users associated with a plurality of work stations N may visit a content. The user data associated with a content may be acquired by the content provider and provided to the trend rating system via the input output I O module . In another exemplary embodiment the user data associated with a content may be received by or acquired by the input output I O module of the trend rating system . In an exemplary embodiment the user data associated with a content may include a least one of a number of times users visits a content in a predetermine period of time an amount of time a user views the content per each visit and other data associated with users visiting a content. The input output I O module may receive user data associated with a content for different predetermined periods of time. In an exemplary embodiment the input output I O module may receive user data associated with a content for a first predetermined period of time. The input output I O module may receive user data associated with a content for a second predetermined period of time. The first predetermined period of time may be longer than the second predetermined period of time. In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined period of time may be 50 days and the second predetermined period of time may be 200 days. The input output I O module may transfer the received user data to the database module and stored.

The input output I O module may receive new or updated user data. For example the input output I O module may periodically receive new or updated user data and transfer the new or updated user data to the database module to be stored. In an exemplary embodiment the input output I O module may receive and store new or updated user data associated with a content every half hour. In another exemplary embodiment the input output I O module may receive and store new or updated user data every day. After receiving user data associated with a content the method may proceed to block .

At block the trend based rating system may determine an average for a number of times a content may be visited by viewers. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may determine a simple moving average for a number of times a content may be visited by viewers. For example the processing module may access the database module to obtain user data associated with a content for the first predetermined time period. The processing module may determine a simple moving average for a number of times a content may be visited by viewers during the first predetermined time period based at least in part on the user data for the first predetermined time period. For example the processing module may determine an average for a number of times a content may be visited by viewers using the following formula 

in Formula 1 CPHC t represents a number of times a content may be visited by viewers per a time period t ty represents a point in time and tn represents a point in time after ty.

In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be 50 days e.g. ty tn and t N N 1 N 2 . . . N 50 days. The average for a number of time a content may be visited by viewers during the first predetermined time period may be determined by cphc 50 cphc N cphc N 1 cphc N 2 cphc N 3 . . . cphc N 50 N.

The processing module may also access the database module to obtain user data associated with a content for the second predetermined time period. The processing module may determine an average e.g. a simple moving average for a number of times a content may be visited by viewers during the second predetermined time period based at least in part on the user data for the second predetermined time period. For example the processing module may determine an average for a number of times a content may be visited by viewers using the following formula 

in Formula 2 CPHC t represents a number of times a content may be visited by a viewer per time period t ty represents a point in time and tn represents a point in time after ty.

In an exemplary embodiment the second predetermined time period may be 200 days and t N N 1 N 2 . . . N 200 days. In an exemplary embodiment the second predetermined time period may include the first predetermined time period. In another exemplary embodiment the second predetermined time period may be disparate time period from the first predetermined time period. The average for a number of time a content may be visited by viewers during the second predetermined time period may be determined by cphc 200 cphc N cphc N 1 cphc N 2 cphc N 3 . . . cphc N 200 N. After determining the average for a number of times a content is visited by viewers the method may proceed to block .

At block the trend based rating system may determine a variance of the average for a number of time a content may be visited by users between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period. For example the processing module may determine a variance of the average for a number of times a content may be visited by users between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may utilize an Euclidean algorithm to determine a variance of the average of a number of times a content may be visited by users between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period. For example the processing module may determine a variance of the average for a number of times a content may be visited by users between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period using the following formula Formula 3 

in Formula 3 CPHC ty tn represents a number of times a content may be visited by viewers per a time period ty tn CPHC ty ty represents a number of times a content may be visited by viewers per a time period ty ty .

After determining a variance of the average for a number of time a content may be visited by users between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period the method may proceed to block .

At block the trend based rating system may determine a trend weight of a content. For example the trend weight of a content may be defined as the quotient of an amount of time a content is viewed by the users per visit divided by a number of times a content is visited by users. The processing module may access the database module to obtain user data to determine a trend weight of a content. The processing module may determine a trend weight of a content during a time period t using the following formula 

in Formula 4 CPHC t represents a number of times a content is visited by users during a time period t and ubt t represents an amount of time a content is viewed by the user per visit during a time period t . After determining a trend weight of a content during a time period t the method may proceed to block .

At block the trend based rating system may determine an average of a weight of a content. The trend based rating system may determine a simple moving average of a weight of a content. For example the weight of a content may be defined as an amount of time a content is viewed by the user per visit multiply by a trend weight of a content. The processing module may determine a weight of a content using the following formula Formula 5 

in Formula 5 Xw t represents a trend weight of a content during a time period t ubt t represents an amount of time a content is viewed by the user per visit during a time period t .

The processing module may access the database module to obtain user data associated with the first predetermined time period. The processing module may determine an average of a weight of a content for the first predetermined time period based at least in part on the user data of the first predetermined time period. The processing module may determine an average of a weight of a content for the first predetermined time period using the following formula 

In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be 50 days ty tn and t N. N 1 N 2 . . . N 50 days. Each weight of a content may be determined by cpwd t X t ubt t . The average of a weight of a content during the first predetermined time period may be determined by cpwd ty tn cpwd N cpwd N 1 cpwd N 2 cpwd N 3 . . . cpwd N 50 N.

The processing module may also access the database module to obtain user data associated with a content for the second predetermined time period. The processing module may determine an average of a weight of a content during the second predetermined time period based at least in part on the user data for the second predetermined time period. The processing module may determine an average of a weight of a content for the first predetermined time period using the following formula 

In an exemplary embodiment the second predetermined time period may be 200 days and t N N 1 N 2 . . . N 200 days. In an exemplary embodiment the second predetermined time period may include the first predetermined time period. In another exemplary embodiment the second predetermined time period may be disparate time period from the first predetermined time period. Each weight of a content may be determined by cpwd t ubt t x t . The average of a weight of a content during the second predetermined time period may be determined by cpwd ty tn cpwd N cpwd N 1 cpwd N 2 cpwd N 3 . . . cpwd N 200 N. After determining the average of a weight of a content the method may proceed to block .

At block the trend based rating system may determine a variance of the average of a weight of a content between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period. For example the processing module may determine a variance of the average of a weight of a content between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may utilize an Euclidean algorithm to determine a variance of the average of a weight of a content between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period. The processing module may determine a variance of the average of a weight of a content between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period using the following formula Formula 8 

in Formula 8 CPWD ty tn represents an average of a weight of a content for a time period ty tn CPWD ty tn represents an average of a weight of a content for a time period ty tn .

After determining a variance of the average of a weight of a content between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period the method may proceed to block .

At block the trend based rating system may determine a trend value of a content based at least in part on a variance of an average of a number of times a content may be visited by a user and a variance of an average of a weight of a content. For example the processing module may determine a trend value of a content by multiplying the variance of an average of a number of times the content may be visited by a user by the variance of an average of a weight of the content. In an exemplary embodiment when the trend value of a content is low the trend based rating system may determine that the content is trending. In another exemplary embodiment when the trend value is high the trend based rating system may determine that the content is not trending. After determining a trend value of a content the method may proceed to block .

At block the method for rating a content based at least in part on a trend of the content may end. The method may be repeated for various contents provided by the plurality of content providers N .

As discussed above the trend weight of a content may be determined by an amount of time a user may view the content per visit divided by a number of times a content may be visited by users per day. The table may include the trend weight of a content for each day of the 20 day period. Also a weight of a content may be determined by multiplying an amount of time a content is viewed by the user per visit by a trend weight of a content. The table may include a weight of a content for each day of the 20 day period. The average of a weight of a content may be determined for a first predetermined time period and a second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be from day 12 to day 20 of the 20 day period and the second predetermined time period may be from day 1 to day of the 20 day period. The average weight of a content associated with the first predetermined time period may be approximately 0.008188 and the average weight of a content associated with the second predetermined time period may be approximately 0.84772. The variance of the average of a weight of a content between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period may be approximately 0.83953.

The average of a number of times a content is visited by users may be determined for a first predetermined time period and a second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be from day 12 to day 20 of the 20 day period and the second predetermined time period may be from day 1 to day 20 of the 20 day period. The average number of times a content is visited by user associated with the first predetermined time period may be approximately 2904 and the average weight of a content associated with the second predetermined time period may be approximately 1778.05. The variance of the average of a number of times a content is visited by users between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period may be approximately 1125.95. The trend value associated with a content may be equal to approximately 945.27. Thus the trend rating system may determine that the content may be downward trending because an amount of time a content is viewed by the users per visit decreased even though a number of times a content is visited by users increased.

As discussed above the trend weight of a content may be determined by an amount of time a user may view the content per visit divided by a number of times a content may be visited by users per day. The table may include the trend weight of a content for each day of the 20 day period. Also a weight of a content may be determined by multiplying an amount of time a content is viewed by the user per visit by a trend weight of a content. The table may include a weight of a content for each day of the 20 day period. The average of a weight of a content may be determined for a first predetermined time period and a second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be from day 12 to day 20 of the 20 day period and the second predetermined time period may be from day 1 to day 20 of the 20 day period. The average weight of a content associated with the first predetermined time period may be approximately 0.258 and the average weight of a content associated with the second predetermined time period may be approximately 0.1979. The variance of the average of a weight of a content between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period may be approximately 0.06.

The average of a number of times a content is visited by users may be determined for a first predetermined time period and a second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be from day 12 to day 20 of the 20 day period and the second predetermined time period may be from day 1 to day 20 of the 20 day period. The average number of times a content is visited by user associated with the first predetermined time period may be approximately 2888.88 and the average weight of a content associated with the second predetermined time period may be approximately 1750. The variance of the average of a number of times a content is visited by users between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period may be approximately 1138.88. The trend value associated with a content may be equal to approximately 68.47. Thus the trend rating system may determine that the content may be neutrally trending because an amount of time a content is viewed by the users per visit increased and subsequently decreased.

As discussed above the trend weight of a content may be determined by an amount of time a user may view the content per visit divided by a number of times a content may be visited by users per day. The table may include the trend weight of a content for each day of the 20 day period. Also a weight of a content may be determined by multiplying an amount of time a content is viewed by the user per visit by a trend weight of a content. The table may include a weight of a content for each day of the 20 clay period. The average of a weight of a content may be determined for a first predetermined time period and a second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be from day 12 to day 20 of the 20 clay period and the second predetermined time period may be from day 1 to day 20 of the 20 day period. The average weight of a content associated with the first predetermined time period may be approximately 0.00799 and the average weight of a content associated with the second predetermined time period may be approximately 0.01149. The variance of the average of a weight of a content between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period may be approximately 0.0035.

The average of a number of times a content is visited by users may be determined for a first predetermined time period and a second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be from day 12 to day 20 of the 20 day period and the second predetermined time period may be from day 1 to day 20 of the 20 day period. The average number of times a content is visited by user associated with the first predetermined time period may be approximately 143828026 and the average weight of a content associated with the second predetermined time period may be approximately 65021911. The variance of the average of a number of times a content is visited by users between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period may be approximately 78806114. The trend value associated with a content may be equal to approximately 275806. Thus the trend rating system may determine that the content may be upward trending because a number of times a content is visited by users is increased.

As discussed above the trend weight of a content may be determined by an amount of time a user may view the content per visit divided by a number of times a content may be visited by users per day. The table may include the trend weight of a content for each day of the 20 day period. Also a weight of a content may be determined by multiplying an amount of time a content is viewed by the user per visit by a trend weight of a content. The table may include a weight of a content for each day of the 20 day period. The average of a weight of a content may be determined for a first predetermined time period and a second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be from day 12 to day 20 of the 20 day period and the second predetermined time period may be from day 1 to day of the 20 day period. The average weight of a content associated with the first predetermined time period may be approximately 1.623 and the average weight of a content associated with the second predetermined time period may be approximately 1.344. The variance of the average of a weight of a content between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period may be approximately 0.279.

The average of a number of times a content is visited by users may be determined for a first predetermined time period and a second predetermined time period. In an exemplary embodiment the first predetermined time period may be from day 12 to day 20 of the 20 day period and the second predetermined time period may be from day 1 to day 20 of the 20 day period. The average number of times a content is visited by user associated with the first predetermined time period may be approximately 2889 and the average weight of a content associated with the second predetermined time period may be approximately 1750. The variance of the average of a number of times a content is visited by users between the first predetermined time period and the second predetermined time period may be approximately 1139. The trend value associated with a content may be equal to approximately 31.7. Thus the trend rating system may determine that the content may be upward trending because an amount of time a content is viewed by the users per visit and a number of times a content is visited by users increased.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with references to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

