---

title: Patient monitoring device
abstract: A patient monitoring device to be worn on a limb of a patient. Some embodiments of the patient monitoring device include at least one sensor assembly configured to detect a measurement indicating a distance around the patient's limb and a communications subassembly configured to transmit the measurement to at least one external computing device. Other embodiments of the patient monitoring device include at least one sensor assembly configured to detect a measurement indicating a distance around the patient's limb and at least one processor configured to detect whether the distance around the patient's limb has increased indicating edema. Some embodiments include an accelerometer configured to detect device orientation and/or patient activity information. The patient activity information may be analyzed by an external computing device and/or the patient monitoring device to determine whether the patient's activity level has declined indicating a medical problem.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08915869&OS=08915869&RS=08915869
owner: Bioguidance LLC
number: 08915869
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110110
---
The present invention is directed generally to devices and methods for monitoring patient health and more particularly to methods and systems for detecting edema.

Monitoring patient parameters is quite common in medical care environments such as hospitals doctors offices and the like. Further patient monitoring outside of a clinical setting is increasing because of the rising cost of traditional healthcare. There is a need for devices configured to monitor a patient s health. Devices configured to notify professional healthcare providers when appropriate are particularly desirable.

A compensated system is able to function despite any stressors or defects that might be present. Decompensation occurs when the system can no longer compensate for these issues. Decompensation is a general term commonly used in medicine to describe a variety of situations.

Cells are surrounded by an extracellular fluid that includes interstitial fluid plasma and transcellular fluid. The interstitial fluid is found in the interstitial spaces also known as the tissue spaces. Edema is an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the interstitial spaces that causes swelling.

Edema in the feet and legs is often referred to as peripheral edema. Limb volume changes have sufficient specificity and sensitivity to be predictive of impending heart failure decompensation in some forms of heart failure. The physiological conditions that cause an increase in interstitial fluid in the limbs of a heart failure patient may also cause decompensation. Therefore edema may be predictive of congestive chest conditions that can endanger the patient.

There are several traditional methods of measuring or evaluating edema. The most commonly used method is to press a depression into the skin e.g. of the lower leg and assign a grade e.g. on a 1 to 4 scale indicating an amount of edema present based on the depth and persistence of the depression. This method provides a coarse but useful measure of edema.

More accurate methods of measuring or evaluating edema include placing the patient s limb in a container of water and measuring an amount of fluid displaced by the patient s limb. By collecting two or more displacement measurements a change in limb volume if any that occurred between measurements can be determined. Unfortunately this method is wet cumbersome and unsuitable for continuous patient monitoring and data collection.

A Leg O Meter device may be used to measure edema. The Leg O Meter device includes a tape measure positioned at a predetermined height above the floor. The tape measure is used to determine a single distance around a limb. While results obtained by the Leg O Meter device are well correlated with those obtained using the more cumbersome fluid displacement method the Leg O Meter device requires a skilled practitioner to operate and the active involvement of the patient.

Electronic measurement devices also exist that are large expensive and fixed making them unsuitable for a home environment. Further such devices typically do not provide methods of communicating with the patient a caregiver or a healthcare provider. These devices also do not typically analyze the data collected.

Quantifying and monitoring peripheral edema is important because the onset of edema and or changes in an amount of edema present can occur many days prior to a considerable decline in patient health. In other words the onset of edema and or changes in an amount of edema present may predict e.g. by several days a significant decline in a patient s health. This predictive indication may be used in some cases to avoid a significant decline in patient health. For example such early warning of an impending problem may be used to adjust the patient s diet salt intake medications and the like. Further consultation with healthcare professionals before the decline occurs may avoid precipitous health declines such as but not limited to decompensated heart failure. Therefore a need exists for methods and systems that provide substantially continuous monitoring of edema. A need also exists for methods and systems that track a patient s physiological parameters and symptoms for the purposes of detecting trends and or recognizing impending patient health conditions that may require medical intervention such as hospitalization.

The present application provides these and other advantages as will be apparent from the following detailed description and accompanying figures.

Referring to the present application describes a system that includes a device worn by a patient that is connected e.g. wirelessly to a control system . The control system may be connected e.g. wirelessly to a healthcare system a support network and the like. The healthcare system includes healthcare professionals physicians hospitals pharmacies and the like. The support network includes the patient s friends family as well as others involved in the patient s care. The patient support network and or the healthcare system may provide reference information to the control system . The reference information is used to setup or configure the control system . By way of a non limiting example the reference information may include patient information e.g. age height weight patient diagnosis message routing information and trigger values. The reference information may also include instructions e.g. patient instructions associated with the trigger values. Such instructions may include a predetermined prescribed treatment plan e.g. instructions to increase a dosage of a diuretic or other medication instructions to perform a stress test requests for patient symptom information instructions to contact healthcare professional and the like. The reference information may have been provided to a website generated by an optional web server illustrated in and forwarded to the control system by the web server .

The control system may issue messages to the patient that could cause a modification in the patient s state e.g. reduce edema or likelihood of edema . When triggered by trigger values the messages may include one or more instructions associated with the trigger values.

The device is configured to be worn on the patient s limb continuously or occasionally for periods of time. When worn in this manner the device occasionally e.g. periodically collects data that may be processed by the control system to obtain a distance measurement around the patient s limb . The distance measurement is referred to herein as a circumference measurement independently of whether the portion of the limb whereat the measurement was taken has a substantially circular cross sectional shape.

The data collected by the device is sent to the control system in a device message . The control system analyzes the data received from the device to determine a circumference measurement for the limb . Over time multiple circumference measurements may be collected and tracked for the purposes of detecting a trend or sudden change in the circumference of the limb . The previously obtained or historical circumference measurements may be stored in the reference information .

A healthcare provider or system may access the control system to review the circumference measurement s to detect potential problems and or recommend treatments or changes in treatment. Further when the control system detects a trend or sudden change in the circumference of the limb the control system may send messages to the healthcare system the support network the patient and the like. When triggered by trigger values messages sent to the healthcare system the support network the patient and the like may include one or more instructions associated with the trigger values.

Messages sent to the healthcare system the support network and or the patient may include SMS cellular telephone messages recorded voice messages e.g. including educational information alerts alarms and the like.

Thus the system provides a means of assessing changes in the size of the patient s limb and more particularly the onset of or changes in peripheral edema. The assessment may be conducted remotely by the control system and or the healthcare system . Members of a support network and or the healthcare system need not be present to collect or evaluate the circumference measurement. Instead circumference measurements may be collected automatically by the device and optionally transferred to the system . Circumference measurements may be collected on an ongoing basis over any desired length of time.

While peripheral edema is often most pronounced in the lower leg interstitial swelling is also generally present to a lesser degree in other parts of the body. Therefore peripheral edema may be measured in other parts of the body. For ease of illustration the device is described below and illustrated as being worn on a lower portion of a patient s leg near the ankle. However the device may also be worn on a different portion of a patient s leg e.g. near the knee thigh and the like a portion of a patient s arm e.g. on or near the wrist on the forearm above the elbow and the like a portion of a patient s foot e.g. on a toe a portion of a patient s hand e.g. on a finger and the like. In other words the device is not limited to being worn on any particular portion of the body.

The system may be conceptualized as a continually readjusting system that seeks a stable desired condition e.g. an absence of edema . The system may implement a control loop illustrated in . In the control loop reference information R is provided and compared with feedback information F. With respect to the system the reference information R may be the reference information provided to the control system and the feedback information F may be the device messages transmitted by the device .

The difference between the reference information R and the feedback information F is an error E. The error E is input into a controller . In system the error E is calculated by the control system . The controller in turn issues commands U e.g. the messages that are used to affect the state of the patient . In the system the control system may issue messages to the patient the support network and or the healthcare system . This is reflected in a current state Y. In the patient s current state is labeled with reference numeral . The current state Y provides the feedback information F that is compared to the reference information R. In other words the patient s state provides the device messages with data used to obtain the circumference measurement that are compared to the reference information e.g. previously obtained circumference measurements . Based on the results of this comparison one or more messages may be sent to the patient the support network and or the healthcare system to modify the patient s state .

Feedback information e.g. the device message illustrated in most often originates from the patient and or the device . This feedback information can travel several alternate paths depending upon the implementation details. For example the feedback information may be input into a computing device e.g. a patient desktop computer a patient cellular telephone a patient portable computer and the like connected to the database server or the web server via the Internet . The device may communicate with the computing device via a wired or wireless communication link e.g. a communication link . Over a wireless communication link the device may communicate with the computing device using SMS messages WIFI protocols Bluetooth protocols and the like. The computing device may transfer the feedback information to the database server . The device may communicate the device messages to the computing device for transmission thereby to the database server .

In the embodiment illustrated the patient desktop computer is connected to the Internet via a conventional wired connection.

In the embodiment illustrated the patient cellular telephone and the patient portable computer are connected to the Internet by an Internet gateway device e.g. a modem . The patient cellular telephone and the patient portable computer may communicate with the Internet gateway device using WIFI protocols Bluetooth protocols and the like.

By way of a non limiting example the feedback information may be transmitted by the device via a radio link e.g. the radio link to the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer and the like. By way of another non limiting example the feedback information may be transmitted by the device directly to the Internet gateway device .

The feedback information is received by the database server . In the embodiment illustrated the database server implements the control system see that compares the current state of the patient and the reference information which may include previously received feedback information .

One or more messages to be reviewed by the patient may be transmitted by the database server to the device the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer and the like. By way of a non limiting example such messages may be displayed on the website see generated by the web server . In such embodiments the database server is configured to instruct the web server to display messages on the website . The patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone and or the patient portable computer may connect to the web server over the Internet and display the website using a conventional web browser application.

The support network may include one or more computing devices e.g. a support computing device connected to the database server via the Internet . One or more messages to be reviewed by a support person may be transmitted by the database server to the computing device . By way of a non limiting example such messages may be displayed on the website see generated by the web server . In the embodiment illustrated the computing device is connected to the Internet via a wireless communication link with a cellular telephone network . The computing device may connect to the web server over the Internet and display the website using a conventional web browser application. Some patients may rely on help from the support network while others may have no such support.

The healthcare system may include one or more computing devices e.g. a caregiver computing device connected to the database server via the Internet . One or more messages to be reviewed by a caregiver may be transmitted by the database server to the computing device . By way of a non limiting example such messages may be displayed on the website see generated by the web server . In the embodiment illustrated the computing device is connected to the Internet via a wired communication link . The computing device may connect to the web server over the Internet and display the website using a conventional web browser application.

A diagram of hardware and an operating environment in conjunction with which implementations of the database server the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer the support computing device the caregiver computing device and the web server may be practiced is provided in and described below.

The sensors and each emit and detect radiation e.g. infrared light . The sensor includes an emitter E configured to emit radiation in response to a command received from the processor and a detector D configured to detect radiation of the type emitted by the emitter E. The sensor is configured to generate an analog signal indicating how much radiation has been detected by the detector D and transmit the analog signal to the A to D converter . The detector D may be configured to detect radiation in response to a command received from the processor . The sensor includes an emitter E configured to emit radiation in response to a command received from the processor and a detector D configured to detect radiation of the type emitted by the emitter E. The detector D may be configured to detect radiation in response to a command received from the processor . The sensor is configured to generate an analog signal indicating how much radiation has been detected by the detector D and transmit the analog signal to the A to D converter . The sensor includes an emitter E configured to emit radiation in response to a command received from the processor and a detector D configured to detect radiation of the type emitted by the emitter E. The detector D may be configured to detect radiation in response to a command received from the processor . The sensor is configured to generate an analog signal indicating how much radiation has been detected by the detector D and transmit the analog signal to the A to D converter .

The A to D converter is configured to digitize the analog signals received from the sensors and to produce digital signals. The digital signals are then communicated to the processor . The processor may store the digital signals as data in the memory and or transmit the digital signals via the radio and antenna to an external device e.g. with reference to the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer the Internet gateway device and the like . By way of a non limiting example the radio may operate at 2.4 GHz and utilize Bluetooth protocol Bluetooth Low Energy protocol ZigBee protocol ANT protocol and the like. The external device may then transmit the digital signals to the database server see via the Internet see .

The processor may send instructions to the voltage regulator to turn off a section of the circuit including the sensors and the A to D converter the optional oximeter and the optional heart rate sensor to save power. Further the processor may send instructions to the voltage regulator to turn on the section of the circuit including the sensors and the A to D converter the optional oximeter and the optional heart rate sensor .

By way of a non limiting example the processor may send instructions to the voltage regulator to turn off the section of the circuit when the capacitive sensor see does not detect the presence of the limb . Further the processor may send instructions to the voltage regulator to turn on the section of the circuit when the capacitive sensor see detects the presence of the limb . The capacitive sensor may be configured to generate an analog signal indicating the presence or absence of the limb and transmit the analog signal to the A to D converter . The A to D converter is configured to digitize the analog signal received from the capacitive sensor to produce a digital signal that is communicated to the processor . The processor analyzes the digital signal and determines whether the capacitive sensor detected the presence of the limb .

The circuit may be connected to a battery see and powered thereby. Error can be introduced by drift in battery voltage over time. This issue may be addressed by the voltage regulator which may be configured to provide a substantially stable voltage to the emitters E E and E and detectors D D and D. Further the regulated voltage provided by the voltage regulator may be used by the A to D converter as a reference voltage to gage and scale the voltages received from the detectors D D and D when converting the voltages from analog signals to digital signals.

While in the embodiment illustrated the circuit is powered by a battery another portable power source may used such as a fuel cell storage capacitor energy harvested from the patient energy harvested from the environment and the like.

The accelerometer may be implemented as a three axis accelerometer configured to detect a direction of the acceleration of gravity or gravitation force . The accelerometer generates a digital signal encoding this information and communicates the signal to the processor . The processor may store the digital signal as device orientation data in the memory and or transmit the digital signal or the stored device orientation data via the radio and antenna to an external device e.g. with reference to the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer the Internet gateway device and the like . The external device may transmit the digital signal or the device orientation data to the database server see via the Internet see . In embodiments in which the device orientation data is stored in the memory the device orientation data may be deleted from the memory after the device orientation data is transmitted to the database server .

The accelerometer may also detect patient motion which may be used by the control system see to determine a level of activity of the patient . The accelerometer generates a digital signal encoding patient motion information and communicates the signal to the processor . The processor may store the digital signal as patient motion information e.g. in an activity log in the memory and or transmit the digital signal or the stored patient motion information via the radio and antenna to an external device e.g. with reference to the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer the Internet gateway device and the like . The external device may transmit the digital signal or the patient motion information to the database server see via the Internet see . In embodiments in which the patient motion information is stored in the memory the patient motion information may be deleted from the memory after the patient motion information is transmitted to the database server .

The optional heart rate sensor senses the heart rate of the patient and generates an analog heart rate signal encoding this information. The analog heart rate signal is transmitted to the A to D converter which converts the analog heart rate signal to a digital heart rate signal and transmits the digital heart rate signal to the processor . The processor may store the digital signal as heart rate information in the memory and or transmit the digital signal or the stored heart rate information via the radio and antenna to an external device e.g. with reference to the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer the Internet gateway device and the like . The external device may transmit the digital signal or the heart rate information to the database server see via the Internet see . In embodiments in which the heart rate information is stored in the memory the heart rate information may be deleted from the memory after the heart rate information is transmitted to the database server .

The optional oximeter may be implemented as a SpO emitter detector circuit. The optional oximeter senses the blood oxygen of the patient and generates an analog blood oxygen signal encoding this information. The analog blood oxygen signal is transmitted to the A to D converter which converts the analog blood oxygen signal to a digital blood oxygen signal and transmits the digital blood oxygen signal to the processor . The processor may store the digital signal as oxygen information in the memory and or transmit the digital signal or the stored oxygen information via the radio and antenna to an external device e.g. with reference to the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer the Internet gateway device and the like . The external device may transmit the digital signal or the oxygen information to the database server see via the Internet see . In embodiments in which the oxygen information is stored in the memory the oxygen information may be deleted from the memory after the oxygen information is transmitted to the database server .

The capacitive sensor see senses whether the limb is present and generates an analog or digital signal encoding this information. The signal is transmitted to the processor optionally via the A to D converter for conversion from an analog signal to a digital signal if necessary . The processor is configured to place the device in a sleep mode if the signal indicates the limb is not present and to maintain the device in the sleep mode until the signal indicates the limb is detected.

In block the processor determines a predetermined measurement interval has lapsed since data was last collected by the device . At this point the processor may turn on the voltage regulator to allow it to stabilize. As mentioned above the voltage regulator may be used to power the detectors D D and D and the emitters E E and E. The voltage regulator may also power the optional oximeter and or the optional heart rate sensor . Thus turning on the voltage regulator may also turn on the optional oximeter and or the optional heart rate sensor .

Then in block the processor turns on the detectors D D and D of the sensors and respectively while the emitters E E and E remain unlit i.e. not emitting radiation . The detectors D D and D each sense an amount of radiation and generate an unlit analog signal indicating the amount of radiation detected when the emitters E E and E are unlit. Thus an amount of ambient or background radiation may be detected and used to correct subsequent measurements.

In block the A to D converter receives the unlit analog signals from the detectors D D and D digitizes the unlit analog signals to produce unlit digital signals and transmits the unlit digital signals to the processor for processing.

In block the processor processes the unlit digital signals. As is apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art variation in emitter efficiency and detector sensitivity caused by manufacturing tolerances and position variation may be addressed by calibrating the circuit see . For example the circuit may be calibrated initially against a gold standard reflective surface and differences between the voltages received from the detectors D D and D of the sensors and stored and used as calibration data. In block the processor may adjust the unlit digital signals using the calibration data. For example the calibration data may be subtracted from the unlit digital signals to equalize the differential efficiencies of emitter detector pairs of the sensors and .

In block the processor may store the unlit digital signals and or the processed unlit digital signals in the memory as unlit data.

Then in block the processor turns on both the emitters E E and E and the detectors D D and D simultaneously.

The detectors D D and D each sense an amount of radiation and generate a lit analog signal indicating the amount of radiation detected when the emitters E E and E are lit.

In block the A to D converter receives the lit analog signals from the detectors D D and D digitizes the lit analog signals to produce lit digital signals and transmits the lit digital signals to the processor for processing.

In block the processor processes the lit digital signals. In block the processor may adjust the lit digital signals using the calibration data. For example the calibration data may be subtracted from the lit digital signals to equalize the differential efficiencies of emitter detector pairs of the sensors and .

In block the processor stores the lit digital signals and or the processed lit digital signals in the memory as lit data.

In block the processor generates calculated values for each of the lit digital signals. The calculated values may be determined by subtracting the unlit digital signals from the lit digital signals. Thus the calculated values reflect an amount of radiation emitted by the emitters E E and E and subsequently detected by the detectors D D and D. Further the calculated values include a value for each of the sensors and .

In decision block the processor evaluates read quality. Read quality may be determined by comparing the calculated values obtained from the detectors D and D with a predetermined normal range. If the calculated values are outside the predetermined normal range the processor determines a bad read has occurred. Otherwise if the calculated values are inside the predetermined normal range the processor determines a good read has occurred.

Optionally in decision block the calculated values obtained from the detectors D and D may be compared to one another to determine whether the values differ from one another by less than a predetermined minimum amount or more than a predetermined maximum amount. If the calculated values differ from one another by less than the predetermined minimum amount or more than the predetermined maximum amount the processor determines a bad read has occurred. Otherwise if the calculated values differ from one another by at least the predetermined minimum amount and no more than the predetermined maximum amount the processor determines a good read has occurred.

As will be explained below when the device is properly positioned on the limb of the patient the calculated value for the detector D is within a predetermined range because the detector D is adjacent a solid portion GS see of an optical gradient see having a substantially constant reflectivity. If the calculated value for the detector D is not within the predetermined range the processor determines a bad read has occurred. On the other hand if the calculated value for the detector D is within the predetermined range the processor determines a good read has occurred.

The decision in decision block is YES when a bad read has occurred. On the other hand the decision in decision block is NO when an acceptable read has occurred.

When the decision in decision block is NO in block the processor stores the calculated values in the memory .

In block the processor obtains one or more accelerometer values from the accelerometer and stores the accelerometer value s in the memory . The accelerometer value s may include an activity log that includes information about patient activity levels. In block the processor may also obtain data from the oximeter and or the heart rate sensor and store that data in the memory .

When the decision in decision block is YES in block the processor stores a bad read count in the memory and returns to block . In block the processor may also evaluate the number of bad reads stored and set an error flag if required.

When the method begins the processor is in the wait state. In block the processor determines a predetermined transmission interval has lapsed since a transmission was last sent by the device to an external device e.g. e.g. the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer the Internet gateway device and the like . As discussed above the external device is configured to transfer the data sent to it by the device to the control system .

In block the processor retrieves the calculated values the accelerometer value s and optionally the data obtained from the oximeter and or the heart rate sensor stored in the memory see in blocks and of the method see . In block the information retrieved is formatted for transmission e.g. placed in transmission packets and subsequently transferred to the external device in block .

In decision block the processor determines whether a transfer confirmation has been received from the external device. The decision in decision block is YES when the device has received a transfer confirmation from the external device in response to the transmission sent in block . Otherwise the decision in decision block is NO when the device has not received a transfer confirmation from the external device in response to the transmission sent in block . Optionally even if a transfer confirmation is received the decision in decision block may nevertheless be NO if the processor determines that a problem occurred when the calculated values were transmitted in block .

When the decision in decision block is NO in block the processor stores bad send data in the memory for analysis. Then the processor returns to block .

In block the device receives data such as a setting value constant value and the like from the control system .

In block the processor determines whether a problem occurred when the data was received from the control system . For example if too much time has elapsed since data was last received from the control system the processor may determine a problem occurred. The decision in decision block is YES when the processor determines a problem has occurred. On the other hand the decision in decision block is NO when the processor determines a problem has not occurred.

When the decision in decision block is YES in block the processor stores data related to the problem e.g. increments a bad receive count value . Then the processor returns to block to wait for additional transmissions from the control system . By way of an example the control system may retransmit data to the device if the control system determines the data was not received by the device.

When the decision in decision block is NO in optional block the processor may send a receipt confirmation to the control system confirming the data was received. Then in block the device stores the data received and the method terminates.

In first block the database server waits to receive a transmission from the device via one of the external devices . In decision block the database server determines whether it has been waiting too long e.g. longer than a predetermined amount of time indicating there may be a problem with the device or in embodiments of the device configured to communicate wirelessly that the device was positioned outside a radio coverage area. The decision in decision block is YES when the database server has been waiting too long for a transmission from the device . On the other hand the decision in decision block is NO when the database server has not been waiting too long for a transmission from the device .

When the decision in decision block is NO the database server continues to wait and in block receives the transmission including the calculated values accelerometer value s and optionally the data obtained from the oximeter and or the heart rate sensor from the device .

In decision block the database server determines whether a problem occurred when the calculated values accelerometer value s and optionally the data obtained from the oximeter and or the heart rate sensor were received from the device . For example the calculated value for the detector D may be compared to a valid range stored in the database server . If the calculated value for the detector D is outside the valid range the database server may determine a problem occurred. The decision in decision block is YES when the database server determines a problem has occurred. On the other hand the decision in decision block is NO when the database server determines a problem has not occurred.

When the decision in decision block is YES in block the database server stores data related to the problem e.g. increments a bad receive count value . Then the database server returns to block to wait for additional transmissions from the device . By way of an example the device may retransmit data to the control system if the device determines the formatted data was not received by the control system.

When the decision in decision block is NO in optional block the database server may send a receipt confirmation to the device confirming the calculated values accelerometer value s and optionally the data obtained from the oximeter and or the heart rate sensor were received. In block the database server stores the calculated values accelerometer value s and optionally the data obtained from the oximeter and or the heart rate sensor received. Then the method terminates. The calculated values accelerometer value s and optionally the data obtained from the oximeter and or the heart rate sensor may be stored in a patient record associated with the device . By way of a non limiting example the transmission received by the control system may include a device identifier associated with the device that may be used to identify the patient record associated with the device.

When the decision in decision block is YES the database server has been waiting too long for a transmission from the device and in block sends a notification indicating a problem has occurred to the device the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone and or the patient portable computer to be reviewed by the patient . In optional block the database server may send a notification to the support network and or the healthcare system indicating a problem has occurred. Then the method terminates.

Referring to as will be explained in greater detail below the device includes a flexible but inelastic strap having a first end portion opposite a second end portion . An optical gradient is coupled to the first end portion . An electronics enclosure is coupled to the second end portion by a guide portion of a frame member positioned about the periphery of the electronics enclosure .

The electronics enclosure includes a sensor portion . The emitter E and detector D of the sensor the emitter E and detector D of the sensor and the emitter E and detector D of the sensor are positioned on the sensor portion of the electronics enclosure .

The first end portion is coupled to the electronics enclosure by a tensioning member . When the first end portion is coupled to the electronics enclosure the sensor portion extends under the first end portion of the strap and the emitters E E and E and detectors D D and D face toward the optical gradient coupled to the first end portion of the strap .

The tensioning member is elastic and may be stretched to accommodate the patient s limb . Referring to when the strap is wrapped snuggly around a cylinder edges and the first and second end portions and respectively will be substantially parallel with one another. However when the strap is wrapped snuggly about a tapered object e.g. a wrist an ankle and the like the strap will follow the tapered surface of the object and the edges and the first and second end portions and respectively will not be substantially parallel with one another. In other words an angle is defined between the edges and when the strap is wrapped snuggly about a tapered object e.g. a wrist an ankle and the like .

As mentioned above the sensors and are adjacent the optical gradient . The sensors and are positioned such that light emitted by the emitters E E and E is reflected by the optical gradient and detected by the detectors D D and D respectively. Referring to the exemplary optical gradient illustrated includes a first gradient portion G a second gradient portion G and a solid portion GS positioned between the first and second gradient portions. In the embodiment illustrated reflectivity of the first and second gradient portions G and G changes linearly along a gradient direction indicated by an arrow GD . However reflectivity of the solid portion GS does not change along the gradient direction indicated by an arrow GD . In the embodiment illustrated the reflectivity of the first and second gradient portions G and G is greater toward the right hand side than toward the left hand side of . Further the first and second gradient portions G and G are aligned along a transverse direction indicated by an arrow TD such that along the transverse direction the reflectivity of the first gradient portion G is substantially identical to the reflectivity of the second gradient portion G. Thus for each location along the gradient direction indicated by an arrow GD the first gradient portion G has a reflectivity substantially identical or corresponding to the reflectivity of the second gradient portion G. 

The sensor is positioned adjacent to the first gradient portion G the sensor is positioned adjacent to the solid portion GS and the sensor is positioned adjacent to the second gradient portion G. Thus the calculated value for sensor should not vary based on the positioning of the sensor relative to the solid portion GS along the gradient direction indicated by the arrow GD . However the calculated values for the sensors and will vary based on the positioning of the sensors and relative to the first and second gradient portions G and G respectively along the gradient direction indicated by the arrow GD . As will be explained in more detail below the calculated value for the sensor may be used to verify the alignment of the sensors and with the optical gradient and the calculated values for the sensors and may be used to determine the position of the device on the patient s limb and a circumference measurement of the patient s limb.

For ease of illustration the distance measurements or circumference measurements obtained from the calculated values will be described as being the measure the distance around the patient s limb used in the model. However this is not a requirement and embodiments in which a different measure of the circumference of the limb is used to generate the model are also within the scope of the present teachings.

The contoured line L models the circumference of the limb at a range of locations along the longitudinal axis of the limb. The contoured line L may be defined by a predefined mathematical equation and one or more circumference measurements illustrated as points A to A collected from the patient s limb . The predefined mathematical equation may be fit to the patient s limb using the one or more circumference measurements illustrated as points A to A collected from the limb . In other words curve fitting techniques may be used to derive the contoured line L by modifying a mathematical equation based on circumference measurements collected from the limb .

In the contoured line L used to model the patient s limb is a parabola. In a minimum circumference MC of the model of the limb is positioned on the y axis above an intersection of the x axis and the y axis. For ease of illustration in the right hand side of the x axis is extending toward an extremity e.g. a hand or a foot and the left hand side of the x axis is extending away from the extremity. At the wrist the arm typically narrows or has a smaller circumference . Similarly at the ankle the leg typically narrows or has a smaller circumference . Therefore the minimum circumference MC may be used as the circumference measurement of the limb .

Turning to in first block circumference measurements e.g. those illustrated as points A to A are collected from the patient s limb . In block a setup operation may be performed by the patient the support person the caregiver a combination thereof and the like in which the device is positioned at different locations along the patient s limb . At each location the device is used to capture at least one circumference measurement. During the setup operation the device may be positioned in predetermined locations so the control system can readily correlate each of the circumference measurements with a position on the patient s limb . The patient the support person and or the caregiver may inform e.g. via the website the control system that the setup operation is being performed. Alternatively the control system may instruct the patient the support person and or the caregiver to perform the setup operation e.g. via the website .

During the setup operation the method illustrated in may be used to collect calculated values for each location in which the device is positioned. When collecting calculated values in block the method uses the predetermined measurement interval. However during the setup operation a different interval e.g. a shorter interval may be used in block . Further the device may include an indicator not shown that may indicate when calculated values have been collected for a particular location so that the person positioning the device on the limb may reposition the device in a next position. The indicator not shown may include a speaker a light and the like. In such embodiments the device may produce a sound and or illuminate a light each time the method terminates during the performance of the setup operation. Alternatively the device may include a manually operable switch e.g. a button that the person positioning the device may activate to indicate the device has been repositioned and the method should be performed by the processor see .

The method see is performed one or more times by the processor see to transfer the calculated values obtained during the setup operation to the database server see . The method see is performed one or more times by the database server see to receive the calculated values obtained during the setup operation from the processor see .

After the database server see has received the calculated values obtained during the setup operation from the processor see in block the database server performs curve fitting techniques to generate a model of the patient s limb based on the circumference measurements obtained from the calculated values. As explained above the calculated values may be converted or otherwise used to obtain circumference measurements. Further in some embodiments the calculated values may be used as the circumference measurements.

Those of ordinary skill in the art appreciate that the device illustrated does not collect a measurement of the position of the device along the limb . In other words the device collects the y coordinate of the points A to A but not the x coordinate. As mentioned above during the setup operation the device may be positioned in predetermined locations so the control system can readily correlate each of the circumference measurements with a position on the patient s limb .

By way of another example each pair of circumference measurements collected using the sensors and illustrated in may be used to determine the position of the device on the patient s limb e.g. the x coordinates of the points A to A for the purposes of generating the model. In the pairs include a first pair of circumference measurements illustrated as points A and A a second pair of circumference measurements illustrated as points A and A a third pair of circumference measurements illustrated as points A and A and a fourth pair of circumference measurements illustrated as points A and A .

The circumference measurements in each of the pairs are spaced apart by a predetermined distance PD. The predetermined distance PD may be substantially equal to a distance e.g. about 20 millimeters between the sensor and the sensor . When the pairs of circumference measurements are collected the strap is allowed to follow the surface of the patient s limb and minor measurement deviations caused by non planar aspects of the limb may be ignored. Each of the pairs of circumference measurements may be used to determine an amount of taper in the patient s limb between the locations whereat the measurements were taken. By way of an example a line Ti illustrates an amount of taper between the circumference measurements illustrated as points A and A of the fourth pair.

Further if the orientation of the device is known the direction of the taper may be used to determine whether a pair of circumference measurements is positioned at or near the minimum circumference MC toward the extremity relative to the minimum circumference MC or away from the extremity relative to the minimum circumference MC . 

The orientation of the device may be determined by performing orientation signal processing on the accelerometer value s transferred with the calculated values. By way of a non limiting example an accelerometer with three orthogonal sensing elements detects static deflections in each of the sensing elements that can be used to determine gravitation direction and thus device orientation. Such orientation signal processing is known in the art and will not be described in detail. If at the time of a measurement the accelerometer value s indicate the device is horizontal i.e. the acceleration of gravity is substantially orthogonal to the longitudinal axis of the limb a previously determined orientation of the device may be used. For example the most recently determined non horizontal orientation may be used.

In alternate embodiments instead of pairs of circumference measurements spaced apart by the predetermined distance PD a single circumference measurement e.g. the point A in and the angle see may be used to define the contoured line L. The angle may serve the same purpose as the second circumferential measurement of each of the pairs of circumferential measurements discussed above. Specifically the angle may be used to determine an amount of taper in the patient s limb whereat the circumference measurement was taken. Using multiple circumference measurements and angle for each circumference measurement the contoured line L e.g. a parabolic curved line may be defined using curve fitting techniques.

In block the database server uses the circumference measurements collected during the setup operation and or an update operation discussed below to generate a lookup table not shown . Returning to a difference between the circumference measurements of each of the pairs referred to as a circumference differential value may be correlated with a position along the longitudinal axis of the limb . For example the difference between the y coordinates of the first pair of circumference measurements plotted as points A and A is larger than the difference between the y coordinates of the second pair of circumference measurements plotted as points A and A indicating the first pair is farther from the minimum circumference MC than the second pair.

In block the database server waits to receive new circumference measurements from the device . By way of a non limiting example the database server may wait for a predetermined interval.

In decision block the database server determines whether new circumference measurements have been received. The decision in decision block is YES when new circumference measurements have been received. On the other hand the decision in decision block is NO when new circumference measurements have not been received.

When the decision in decision block is YES in decision block the database server determines whether to update the model. The decision in decision block is YES when the database server decides to update the model. On the other hand the decision in decision block is NO when the database server decides not to update the model.

When the decision in decision block is NO the database server returns to block to wait for new circumference measurements.

When the decision in decision block is YES new circumference measurements are used to update or modify the model. The new circumference measurements may be those accumulated as the device is worn by the patient e.g. the new circumference measurements received before decision block and or new circumference measurements collected during an update operation.

Further other information such as patient height and weight may be considered and used to modify the model. For example if the patient has gained weight other than by the retention of fluids an increase in limb circumference may merely be the result of the weight gain. Therefore the model e.g. equation defining the contoured line L may be updated to reflect the change in limb size.

In decision block the database server determines whether to perform the update operation which may be substantially similar to the setup operation. The decision in decision block is YES when the database server decides to perform the update operation. On the other hand the decision in decision block is NO when the database server decides not to perform the update operation.

The setup or update operations may be performed when the length of the strap is adjusted e.g. tightened or loosened . Further the setup or update operations may be performed when the strap is replaced because manufacturing variations may exist in the reflective qualities of the optical gradient or strap . This setup or update operations may be performed by the control system automatically. Further a user e.g. the patient the support person the caregiver and the like may initiate the performance of the setup or update operations e.g. in response to a recalibration notice .

When the decision in decision block is YES the block is performed to collect the new circumference measurements. Then in block the database server regenerates the model using the circumference measurements collected during the setup operation the new circumference measurements collected during the update operation and optionally the new circumference measurements collected before decision block as the device was worn by the patient .

When the decision in decision block is NO in block the database server regenerates the model using the circumference measurements collected during the setup operation as well as the new circumference measurements.

While the contoured line L has been described as being a parabola instead the contoured line L may be V shaped. In such an implementation the wrist or ankle is modeled as two cones axially aligned and merged together near each of their points. However each of the cones has a linear taper and constant surface angle with respect to the axis of the cone. In contrast a limb particularly near the wrist or ankle has a curved and somewhat parabolic shape. Thus it may be desirable for the contoured line L to have a rate of taper change or apparent surface angle change that is not constant. In particular it may be desirable for the rate of taper change to lessen near the minimum circumference MC and increase progressively outwardly from the minimum circumference as occurs in a parabola.

By way of yet another non limiting example the model of the three dimensional surface of the limb may be constructed using anatomical data. For example the model may be created by scanning a representative human limb or combining multiple scans of limbs to create a composite model. Multiple models may be created for different genders ages heights weights a combination thereof and the like. Further a model may be created for each patient by scanning the limb of the patient .

In the contoured line L is symmetric about the y axis. Thus the contoured line L indicates the rate of change in the surface angle of the limb is the same at locations equidistant from the minimum circumference MC along the longitudinal axis of the limb . However this may not be the case. Because the rate of change of the surface angle of the patient s limb is likely to be different and nonsymmetrical along the longitudinal axis of the limb from the minimum circumference MC toward the direction toward the extremity e.g. foot or hand than in the opposite direction from the minimum circumference MC different mathematical equations or a different model may be used to model these portions of the limb . As mentioned above the accelerometer value s may be used to determine the orientation of the device so that whether the device is above or below the minimum circumference MC may be determined.

For ease of illustration the method will be described with respect to the circumference measurements plotted as points P and P in . However as is apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art the method may be performed with respect to more than a pair of circumference measurements.

In first block the database server determines an orientation of the device when the lit analog signals used to determine the calculated values from which the circumference measurements plotted as the points P and P in were collected. In block the database server performs orientation signal processing on the accelerometer value s transferred with the calculated values to determine the orientation of the device on the limb . By way of a non limiting example an accelerometer with three orthogonal sensing elements detects static deflections in each of the sensing elements that may be used to determine gravitation direction and thus device orientation. Such orientation signal processing is known in the art and will not be described in detail. The database server may store the orientation of the device .

In optional decision block the database server may determine whether the sensors and were properly aligned with the optical gradient . The calculated value for the sensor may be used to verify the alignment of the emitter E with the optical gradient . For example if the calculated value is within a predetermined range expected for the solid portion GS of the optical gradient the database server determines the sensors and were properly aligned with the optical gradient . Otherwise if the calculated value is not within the predetermined range expected for the solid portion GS of the optical gradient the database server determines the sensors and were improperly aligned.

The decision in optional decision block is YES when the database server determines the sensors and were properly aligned with the optical gradient . On the other hand the decision in optional decision block is NO when the database server determines the sensors and were improperly aligned with the optical gradient .

When the decision in optional decision block is NO in optional block the database server may indicate a misalignment occurred. Then the method terminates having failed to determine a final circumference value or edema measure .

When the decision in optional decision block is YES or the optional decision block is omitted in block the database server calculates a circumference differential value for the circumference measurements plotted as the points P and P in . As explained above to calculate the circumference differential value the database server may calculate a first circumference measure for the sensor based on the calculated value for the sensor and a second circumference measure for the sensor based on the calculated value for the sensor . For ease of illustration the device will be described as being in the orientation illustrated in . However this is not a requirement. When the device is in this orientation the sensor is nearer an extremity e.g. a hand or a foot and is positioned below the sensor which is farther away from the extremity. Thus the sensor may be characterized as being an upper sensor and the sensor may be characterized as being a lower sensor. However as is appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art the assignment of upper and lower are purely arbitrary and vary based upon the position of the patient s limb. By way of a non limiting example the circumference differential value may be calculated by subtracting the first circumference measure for the upper sensor from the second circumference measure for the lower sensor .

If the circumference differential value is approximately zero the sensors and are adjacent portions of the optical gradient having substantially equivalent reflectivity. Because the first and second gradient portions G and G are substantially aligned with one another this means the sensors and are adjacent corresponding portions of the first and second gradient portions G and G. The device is illustrated in this configuration in . This may indicate the device is positioned approximately at the patient s wrist or ankle.

On the other hand if the circumference differential value is greater than or less than zero the sensors and are not adjacent corresponding portions of the first and second gradient portions G and G. As will be described in greater detail below the position of the sensors and relative to the optical gradient varies with the circumference of the patient s limb . Further the position of the sensors and relative to the optical gradient along the transverse direction indicated by the arrow TD may vary based upon the location of the device on the patient s limb .

If the circumference differential value is greater than zero the device may be positioned above the patient s wrist or ankle. The device is illustrated in this configuration in . On the other hand if the circumference differential value is less than zero the device may be positioned below the patient s wrist or ankle. The device is illustrated in this configuration in .

In decision block the database server determines whether the circumference differential value is too large indicating improper placement of the device . By way of a non limiting example the database server may determine the circumference differential value is too large if the circumference differential value is greater than a predetermined threshold value. The decision in decision block is YES when the database server determines the circumference differential value is too large. On the other hand the decision in decision block is NO when the database server determines the circumference differential value is not too large.

When the decision in decision block is YES in optional block the database server sends a message to the patient to adjust the position of the device . Further in optional block the database server may remove the calculated values from the patient record. Then the method terminates.

Because the circumference of the limb varies along its longitudinal axis to compare successive circumference measurements to one another directly the circumference measurements must have been collected from nearly identical locations along the longitudinal axis of the limb . Because the device may move along the longitudinal axis of the limb it may not be possible to compare successive circumference measurements directly. Further the patient may inadvertently position the device in different locations along the patient s limb between circumference measurements which could contribute to measurement errors. However as explained above the model e.g. the contoured line L may be used to obtain the minimum circumference MC or an estimate thereof for the limb . The minimum circumference values obtained from successive circumference measurements may be compared directly because they are believed to be from the same location on the limb .

When the decision in decision block is NO in block the database server determines a minimum circumference MC for the circumference measurements plotted as the points P and P in and whether the minimum circumference MC indicates the size of the limb has changed. As mentioned above the database server may create a lookup table using the pairs of circumference measurements used to create the model.

The database server may use the lookup table to determine whether the minimum circumference MC and whether the circumference of the limb has changed. For example the database server may determine the circumference of the limb has not changed if the newly measured pair of circumference measurements plotted as the points P and P in includes a circumference measurement corresponding to the circumference measurement stored in the lookup table for a previously collected pair of circumference measurements and the circumference differential value of the new pair of circumference measurements matches the circumference differential value stored for the same previously collected pair of circumference measurements. When this is the case the minimum circumference MC associated with the previously collected pair of circumference measurements may be used as the minimum circumference MC for the new pair.

Similarly the database server may determine the circumference of the limb has not changed if the newly measured pair of circumference measurements plotted as the points P and P in includes a circumference measurement between the circumference measurements stored in the lookup table for a first previously collected pair of circumference measurements and a second previously collected pair of circumference measurements and the circumference differential value of the new pair of circumference measurements is between the circumference differential values stored for the first and second previously collected pairs of circumference measurements. When this is the case the minimum circumference MC associated with the previously collected pair of circumference measurements may be used as the minimum circumference MC for the new pair. The position of the new pair on the contoured line L may be determined using interpolation e.g. linear interpolation between the first and second previously collected pairs of circumference measurements.

However the database server may determine the circumference of the limb has changed if the newly measured pair of circumference measurements plotted as the points P and P in includes a circumference measurement corresponding to the circumference measurement stored in the lookup table for a previously collected pair of circumference measurements but the circumference differential value of the new pair of circumference measurements does not match the difference value stored for the same previously collected pair of circumference measurements. Similarly the database server may determine the circumference of the limb has changed if the newly measured pair of circumference measurements includes a circumference measurement between the circumference measurements stored in the lookup table for a first previously collected pair of circumference measurements and a second previously collected pair of circumference measurements but the circumference differential value of the new pair of circumference measurements is not between the circumference differential values stored for the first and second previously collected pairs of circumference measurements.

Referring to if the limb has swelled but its shape has remained substantially unchanged the swollen limb may be modeled by a contoured line L which has the same shape as the contoured line L but is shifted upwardly on the y axis relative to the contoured line L. In this example the point P is aligned vertically with the point A and the point P is aligned vertically with the point A. Therefore the circumference differential value of the new pair of circumference measurements plotted as the points P and P is the same as the circumference differential value stored in the lookup table for the previously collected pair of circumference measurements plotted as the points A and A . However a first circumference measurement plotted as the point P of the new pair is larger than the corresponding first circumference measurement plotted as the point A of the previously collected pair. Similarly a second circumference measurement plotted as the point P of the new pair is larger than the corresponding second circumference measurement plotted as the point A of the previously collected pair. Thus no matter which of the circumference measurements of the previously collected pair are stored in the lookup table the lookup table will indicate the limb has swollen when corresponding circumference measurements of the new and previously collected pairs are compared to one another.

Referring to if swelling in the limb has reduced but its shape has remained substantially unchanged the limb may be modeled by a contoured line having the same shape as the contoured line L but shifted downwardly on the y axis relative to the contoured line L. The circumference differential value of a new pair of circumference measurements will be the same as the circumference differential value stored in the lookup table for a previously collected pair of circumference measurements. However a first circumference measurement of the new pair will be smaller than the corresponding first circumference measurement of the previously collected pair. Similarly a second circumference measurement of the new pair will be smaller than the corresponding second circumference measurement of the previously collected pair. Thus no matter which of the circumference measurements of the previously collected pair are stored in the lookup table the lookup table will indicate swelling in the limb has reduced when corresponding circumference measurements of the new and previously collected pairs are compared to one another.

When the database server determines the size of the limb has changed the database server generates a contoured line e.g. the contoured line L and uses the contoured line to determine the minimum circumference e.g. the minimum circumference MC of the limb . In block the database server compares the previously obtained minimum circumference MC to the newly measured minimum circumference e.g. the minimum circumference MC .

In decision block the database server determines whether the newly measured minimum circumference e.g. the minimum circumference MC is larger than the previously obtained minimum circumference MC indicating the limb has swollen. The decision in decision block is YES when the newly measured minimum circumference e.g. the minimum circumference MC is larger than the previously obtained minimum circumference MC . On the other hand the decision in decision block is NO when the newly measured minimum circumference e.g. the minimum circumference MC is not larger than the previously obtained minimum circumference MC . 

When the decision in decision block is YES in block the database server analyzes one or more triggers to determine whether any have been satisfied such that a message is be sent to the patient e.g. the message illustrated in the support person and or the caregiver . For example a trigger may have been entered into the website indicating that if the limb swells by more than a trigger threshold value the message see is to be sent to the patient . In block the database server determines by how much the limb has swelled and compares that amount to the trigger threshold value.

By way of example in block the database server may determine an amount of change and or a rate of change. In block the database server may try to identify a trend indicative of a problem. For example if the minimum circumference values appear to be increasing the patient may be experiencing a medical problem. In block the database server may determine an amount by which edema in the limb has changed.

In decision block the database server determines whether one or more triggers are satisfied indicating a problem. The decision in decision block is YES when the database server determines one or more triggers are satisfied. On the other hand the decision in decision block is NO when the database server determines none of the triggers are satisfied.

When the decision in decision block is NO in optional block the database server may send a notification indicating no problem has been detected to the device the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer and the like to be viewed by patient . The notification may be viewable on the website see . Optionally the database server may send a notification indicating no problem has been detected to the computing device to be viewed by the support person and or to the computing device to be viewed by the caregiver . Any such notifications may be viewable on the website see . Then the method terminates.

When the decision in decision block is YES in block the database server may send a notification indicating a problem has been detected to the device the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer and the like to be viewed by patient . The notification may be viewable on the website see . Optionally the database server may send a notification indicating a problem has been detected to the computing device to be viewed by the support person and or to the computing device to be viewed by the caregiver . Any such notifications may be viewable on the website see . Instructions may be associated with the trigger and included in the message sent to the patient the support person and or the caregiver . The instructions may include a predefined treatment plan. Then the method terminates.

In block the database server analyzes the sensor data relative to one or more triggers to determine whether any of the triggers have been satisfied such that a trigger message is to be sent to the patient e.g. the message illustrated in the support person and or the caregiver . For example a trigger may have been entered into the website indicating that if the patient s physical activity drops below a specified level a trigger message is to be sent to the patient the support person and or the caregiver reporting unusual inactivity. By way of another example increased peripheral edema measurements might trigger a predetermined prescribed treatment plan that could include increasing a dosage of a diuretic or other medication. By way of yet another example a combination of sensor measurements e.g. measurements indicating increased edema and reduced activity may trigger additional stress testing automated patient symptom questions a nurse to call or messages to setup an appointment with a healthcare provider. In block the database server may try to identify a trend indicative of a problem.

In decision block the database server determines whether one or more triggers are satisfied indicating a problem. The decision in decision block is YES when the database server determines one or more triggers are satisfied. On the other hand the decision in decision block is NO when the database server determines none of the triggers are satisfied.

When the decision in decision block is NO in optional block the database server may send a notification indicating no problem has been detected to the device the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer and the like to be viewed by patient . The notification may be viewable on the website see . Optionally the database server may send a notification indicating no problem has been detected to the computing device to be viewed by the support person and or to the computing device to be viewed by the caregiver . Any such notifications may be viewable on the website see . Then the method terminates.

When the decision in decision block is YES in block the database server may send a trigger message indicating a problem has been detected to the device the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer and the like to be viewed by patient . The trigger message may be viewable on the website see . Optionally the database server may send a trigger message indicating a problem has been detected to the computing device to be viewed by the support person and or to the computing device to be viewed by the caregiver . Any such trigger messages may be viewable on the website see . Instructions may be associated with the trigger and included in the message sent to the patient the support person and or the caregiver . For example the trigger message may instruct the patient to engage in a particular physical activity e.g. a stress test for the purposes of collecting patient data during the physical activity. The collection of such data may be coordinated using the website . As the patient engages in the particular physical activity the device collects data using the accelerometer the heart rate sensor the oximeter the sensor the sensor and or the sensor and transfers the data collected to the control system . Then the method terminates.

Feedback may be used to improve the system using retrospective analysis. A website or telephone interaction for example may be used to provide a convenient means of feeding information back to the control system regarding decompensation events if any occur. The patient history can be reviewed to improve of the performance of the control system . In cases where the caregiver or other healthcare professional is available by telephone the system may be used to trigger prospective interaction with the patient that the caregiver may enter into the patient record. In this manner the system may acquire additional information that may be used to improve the ability of the system to recognize problems. Further the system may use such information to provide an earlier indication of a problem that may be reversible by simple measures such as improved treatment plan compliance additional medication reduced salt intake and the like which may be implemented before the patient requires emergency healthcare system intervention.

As described above illustrates the circuit that may be used to construct the device . Referring to other components that may be used to construct the device will be described.

Turning to in the embodiment illustrated the circuit is mounted on a substrate e.g. a printed circuit board housed inside a two part electronics enclosure . A removable battery may provide power to the circuit . An insulator may be positioned adjacent the circuit to allow the battery to be changed without contacting the circuit . The electronics enclosure includes a body portion and a transparent cover . The body portion may include a compliant elastomeric portion that is positioned against the patient s limb when the device is worn. The body portion is substantially fluid tight to prevent fluid ingress. The electronics enclosure may be positioned inside the frame member having a hook spaced part from the guide portion .

Turning to in the embodiment illustrated the first end portion of the strap is connected to the frame member surrounding the electronics enclosure by the tensioning member and the second end portion of the strap is connected to the guide portion of the frame member .

The first end portion of the strap extends around the tensioning member and is affixed to itself. For example the first end portion of the strap may be looped around the tensioning member folded back on itself and affixed in place by an adhesive material . A guide spaced apart from the tensioning member may also be adhered to the first end portion of the strap by the adhesive material . The guide may be configured to limit lateral movement of the first end portion of the strap to help maintain the optical gradient adjacent the sensors and even when the device is positioned on a portion of the patient s limb see at a location of extreme taper. By way of a non limiting example the adhesive material may include a double stick adhesive such as 3M 5952 3M St Paul Minn. or similar adhesive material.

The second end portion of the strap is removably or repositionally affixed to itself by a different adhesive tape such as 3M 9425 or similar adhesive material. The second end portion of the strap is looped around the guide portion of the frame member folded back on itself and removably fixed in place by the adhesive tape . The second end portion of the strap may be repositioned to adjust the length of the strap to allow for a large range of circumference changes and for use with a variety of small and large limbs.

The strap is flexible substantially inelastic and resists stretching when worn by the patient see . By way of a non limiting example the strap may be constructed from an inelastic material such as Tyvek Dupont Wilmington Del. or other similar material.

Referring to as mentioned above the sensor portion of the electronics enclosure extends under the first end portion of the strap and the optical gradient is positioned on the first end portion of the strap to face the sensor portion of the electronics enclosure . The emitter E and detector D of the sensor the emitter E and detector D of the sensor and the emitter E and detector D of the sensor are positioned on the sensor portion of the electronics enclosure with the emitters and detectors facing toward the optical gradient on the first end portion of the strap .

The tensioning member may be coupled to the hook of the frame member . Tension in the tensioning member pulls the first end portion toward the electronics enclosure to thereby impart tension in the strap which may hold the strap snuggly against the limb . Further the tensioning member may help maintain the position of the gradient surface adjacent to the sensor portion of the electronics enclosure . This tensioning member allows the first and second end portions and of the strap to skew relative to one another to define the angle illustrated in and allows the strap to follow the surface of the limb .

At least a portion of the sensor portion of the electronics enclosure may be transparent to the light emitted by the emitters E E and E e.g. red and infrared radiation having a wavelength between about 600 nm to about 1000 nm . In the embodiment illustrated the transparent cover that allows light emitted by the emitters E E and E to pass therethrough to illuminate the optical gradient . A portion of the light emitted by the emitters E E and E is reflected back toward the detectors D D and D positioned inside the sensor portion of the electronics enclosure . The reflected light passes through the transparent cover and into the sensor portion of the electronics enclosure where it is detected by the detectors D D and D. 

The amount of light reflected back toward the sensor portion is proportional to the position of the detectors D and D relative to the gradient portions G and G respectively. The light sensed by the detectors D and D may be correlated to the position of the device on the limb .

Optionally the device may include a display not shown such as a liquid crystal display configured to display messages sent to the device.

In an alternate embodiment referring to the radio and the antenna are omitted from the circuit . Instead referring to in a device the circuit is configured to communicate via a wired connection with an external computing device e.g. the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer and the like . The wired connection includes a cable connected at one end to the circuit and at the opposite end to a connector e.g. a universal serial bus connector . The connector may be configured to receive power from the external computing device. In such embodiments the circuit may be powered by the wired connection instead of the battery .

In another alternate embodiment the device may be configured to store measurements and other data and display information directly to the patient . In such an embodiment the device may analyze the stored data or alternatively be connected to an external communications device configured to transfer the data for analysis by an external computing device e.g. the database server . When the analysis is completed the results may be transferred to the device for display thereby.

The width of the strap may be selected such that the strap intimately and contiguously follows the surface of the limb and at the same time properly places the sensors and relative to the optical gradient . By way of a non limiting example the strap may be about 25 mm wide. Further the sensor may be spaced about 20 mm from the sensor .

Declines in patient activity level have also been found to correlate to impending decompensation. Therefore the accelerometer may be used to measuring patient activity and transmit such information to the control system for analysis thereby to detect trends in general patient activity. The control system may also detect falls and recognize leg orientation to better understand variations in patient activity. The control system may be configured to recognize a substantial variation in patient activity alone as a predictor of a medical problem. In response to detecting a substantial variation in patient activity the control system may send a message to the patient via the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer and the like the support network e.g. via the computing device and or the healthcare system e.g. via the computing device . Further the circuit may be modified to include sensors for detecting other physiological parameters such as impedance respiration electrocardiogram ECG and or pulse velocity non invasive blood pressure NIBP . Physiological parameters sensed by the circuit may be stored analyzed and displayed locally on the device or communicated to an external computing device.

The control system may send instructions to the device . For example the control system may instruct the device to collect measurements from particular sensors change the schedule e.g. intervals when measurements are collected display status information modify e.g. update local software programs and the like.

The control system may route messages to the patient the support person and or the caregiver in a scheduled or event driven manner. Not all significant heart failure symptoms are objective physiological measurements. Scheduled messages sent to the patient e.g. sent via the patient cellular telephone including questions regarding breathlessness as an example might be used to gather information useful for generating a trend baseline of the patient s condition. Event driven messages might request that the patient as an example perform particular actions e.g. perform a walking stress test to characterize the significance of changes observed in the patient s physiological conditions. The control system may analyze data as it is received in view of the patient record route messages and initiate actions as required.

Thus the system implements a feedback or control loop is created in which the control system may immediately recognize a swelling trend in the patient s limb . A heart failure patient can substantially affect the progression of the disease by compliance with a treatment plan which may include medication diet and exercise. The system may reinforce compliance by providing a means for patients to connect with each other by messaging voice and chat room options.

While the sensors and have been described as being light sensors those of ordinary skill in the art appreciate that embodiments may be constructed using other types of sensors such as linear variable resistors rotary variable resistors pressure sensors strain sensors magnetoresistive circuits conductive fabric conductive elastomers and the like. Additionally embodiments may be constructed using sensors that measure capacitance inductance magnetorestrictive Hall Effect optical pattern encoding optical path measurement light loss bending constructions piezo effect eddy current ultrasound and or radar.

The device has been described as including sensors and configured for use with an optical gradient . However other methods may be used to determine whether the distance around the limb has changed. For example sensors configured to sense strain or pressure may be used. Further the system may be configured to receive circumference measurements from devices other than the device and use those measurements to evaluate the circumference of the patient s limb.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that implementations may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Implementations may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The exemplary hardware and operating environment of includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computing device . The database server the patient desktop computer the patient cellular telephone the patient portable computer the support computing device the caregiver computing device the web server may each be implemented using one or more computing devices like the computing device .

The computing device includes a system memory the processing unit and a system bus that operatively couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . There may be only one or there may be more than one processing unit such that the processor of computing device includes a single central processing unit CPU or a plurality of processing units commonly referred to as a parallel processing environment. When multiple processing units are used the processing units may be heterogeneous. By way of a non limiting example such a heterogeneous processing environment may include a conventional CPU a conventional graphics processing unit CPU a floating point unit FPU combinations thereof and the like.

The computing device may be a conventional computer a distributed computer or any other type of computer.

The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The memory illustrated may be substantially similar to the system memory . The system memory may also be referred to as simply the memory and includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is stored in ROM . The computing device further includes a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD or other optical media.

The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical disk drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any type of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards solid state memory devices SSD USB drives digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges random access memories RAMs read only memories ROMs and the like may be used in the exemplary operating environment. As is apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art the hard disk drive and other forms of computer readable media e.g. the removable magnetic disk the removable optical disk flash memory cards SSD USB drives and the like accessible by the processing unit may be considered components of the system memory .

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk drive magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner touch sensitive devices e.g. a stylus or touch pad video camera depth camera or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port a universal serial bus USB or a wireless interface e.g. a Bluetooth interface . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers and haptic devices that provide tactile and or other types physical feedback e.g. a force feed back game controller .

The input devices described above are operable to receive user input and selections. Together the input and display devices may be described as providing a user interface. The input devices may be used to receive information from the patient the support person the caregiver and the like. The user interface may be used to display messages e.g. notifications and alters to the patient the support person the caregiver and the like.

The computing device may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer . These logical connections are achieved by a communication device coupled to or a part of the computing device as the local computer . Implementations are not limited to a particular type of communications device. The remote computer may be another computer a server a router a network PC a client a memory storage device a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device . The remote computer may be connected to a memory storage device . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a LAN may be connected to a WAN via a modem using a carrier signal over a telephone network cable network cellular network or power lines. Such a modem may be connected to the computing device by a network interface e.g. a serial or other type of port . Further many laptop computers may connect to a network via a cellular data modem.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing device is connected to the local area network through a network interface or adapter which is one type of communications device. When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem a type of communications device or any other type of communications device for establishing communications over the wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the personal computing device or portions thereof may be stored in the remote computer and or the remote memory storage device . It is appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of and communications devices for establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The computing device and related components have been presented herein by way of particular example and also by abstraction in order to facilitate a high level view of the concepts disclosed. The actual technical design and implementation may vary based on particular implementation while maintaining the overall nature of the concepts disclosed.

The memory of the database server stores computer executable instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform all or portions of the methods and or .

The memory of the device stores processor executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform all or portions of the methods and or .

Any of the instructions described above including the instructions of stored by the memory of the database server and in the memory of the device may be stored on one or more non transitory computer readable media.

The foregoing described embodiments depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from this invention and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this invention. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is solely defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

