---

title: Silicon carbide switching devices including P-type channels
abstract: Methods of forming a p-channel MOS device in silicon carbide include forming an n-type well in a silicon carbide layer, and implanting p-type dopant ions to form a p-type region in the n-type well at a surface of the silicon carbide layer and at least partially defining a channel region in the n-type well adjacent the p-type region. A threshold adjustment region is formed in the channel region. The implanted ions are annealed in an inert atmosphere at a temperature greater than 1650° C. A gate oxide layer is formed on the channel region, and a gate is formed on the gate oxide layer. A silicon carbide-based transistor includes a silicon carbide layer, an n-type well in the silicon carbide layer, and a p-type region in the n-type well at a surface of the silicon carbide layer and at least partially defining a channel region in the n-type well adjacent the p-type region. A threshold adjustment region is in the channel region and includes p-type dopants at a dopant concentration of about 1×10cmto about 5×10cm. The transistor further includes a gate oxide layer on the channel region, and a gate on the gate oxide layer. The transistor may exhibit a hole mobility in the channel region in excess of 5 cm/V-s at a gate voltage of −25V.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552997&OS=09552997&RS=09552997
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09552997
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110202
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 740 687 filed on Apr. 26 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 883 949 which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 817 296 filed Jun. 29 2006 entitled SILICON CARBIDE SWITCHING DEVICES INCLUDING P TYPE CHANNELS AND METHODS OF FORMING THE SAME the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in their entireties.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N00014 05 C 0202 awarded by ONR DARPA. The Government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to silicon carbide electronic devices. More particularly the present invention relates to silicon carbide electronic devices including metal oxide semiconductor structures.

Power semiconductor devices are widely used to carry large currents and support high voltages. Modern power devices are generally fabricated from monocrystalline silicon semiconductor material. One widely used power device is the power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor MOSFET . In a power MOSFET a control signal is supplied to a gate electrode that is separated from the semiconductor surface by an intervening insulator which may be but is not limited to silicon dioxide. Current conduction occurs via transport of majority carriers without the presence of minority carrier injection that is used in bipolar transistor operation. Power MOSFETs can provide an excellent safe operating area and can be paralleled in a unit cell structure.

As is well known to those having skill in the art power MOSFETs may include a lateral structure or a vertical structure. In a lateral structure the drain gate and source terminals are on the same surface of a substrate. In contrast in a vertical structure the source and drain are on opposite surfaces of the substrate.

One widely used silicon power MOSFET is the double diffused MOSFET DMOSFET which is fabricated using a double diffusion process. In these devices a p base region and an n source region are diffused through a common opening in a mask. The p base region is driven in deeper than the n source. The difference in the lateral diffusion between the p base and n source regions forms a surface channel region.

Recent development efforts in power devices have also included investigation of the use of silicon carbide SiC devices for power devices. Silicon carbide SiC has a combination of electrical and physical properties that make it attractive for a semiconductor material for high temperature high voltage high frequency and high power electronic devices. These properties include a 3.0 eV bandgap a 4 MV cm electric field breakdown a 4.9 W cm K thermal conductivity and a 2.0 107 cm s electron drift velocity.

Consequently these properties may allow silicon carbide power devices to operate at higher temperatures higher power levels and or with lower specific on resistance than conventional silicon based power devices. A theoretical analysis of the superiority of silicon carbide devices over silicon devices is found in a publication by Bhatnagar et al. entitled Comparison of 6H SiC 3C SiC and Si for Power Devices IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices Vol. 40 1993 pp. 645 655. A power MOSFET fabricated in silicon carbide is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 421 to Palmour entitled Power MOSFET in Silicon Carbide and assigned to the assignee of the present invention.

In order to implement a p channel metal oxide semiconductor MOS type device such as an PMOS transistor or a p channel insulated gate bipolar transistor P IGBT in silicon carbide it is desirable to provide a high quality MOS channel that is suitable for hole conduction. Typical p channel MOS devices in silicon carbide have demonstrated unacceptably low hole mobility. It is estimated that a mobility of at least 5 cm V s may be desirable in order for the performance of a P IGBT to match that of a conventional DMOSFET device having a 10 kV blocking voltage.

Some embodiments of the invention provide methods of forming a p channel MOS device in silicon carbide. The methods include forming an n type well in a silicon carbide layer and implanting p type dopant ions to form a p type region in the n type well. The p type region at least partially defines a channel region in the n type well. The methods further include forming a threshold adjustment region in the channel region and annealing the implanted ions in an inert atmosphere at a temperature greater than 1650 C. A gate oxide layer is formed on the channel region and a gate contact is formed on the gate oxide layer.

The methods may further include forming a graphite coating on the silicon carbide layer after implanting the p type dopant ions. Annealing the implanted ions may include annealing the silicon carbide layer and the graphite coating. The graphite coating is removed after annealing the implanted ions. The graphite coating may be crystallized before annealing the implanted ions and may have a thickness of about 1 m. Annealing the implanted ions may include annealing the implanted ions at a temperature greater than 1700 C. and in some embodiments greater than 1800 C.

Forming the gate oxide layer may include forming the gate oxide layer in dry O and the methods may further include annealing the gate oxide layer in wet O. In particular the gate oxide layer may be formed in dry Oat a temperature of up to about 1200 C. The wet anneal may include a pyrogenic anneal with a molecular ratio of hydrogen to oxygen of about 1.8 or more.

The methods may further include annealing the gate oxide layer in an inert atmosphere at a temperature of up to about 1200 C. after forming the gate oxide layer and before annealing the gate oxide layer in wet O.

In some embodiments annealing the gate oxide layer in wet Omay include annealing the gate oxide layer in wet Oat a temperature of less than about 950 C. for at least one hour.

In some embodiments the silicon carbide layer may include an n type silicon carbide layer and the p type region may include a p type source region. The methods may further include implanting p type dopant ions in the n type well to form a p type drain region spaced apart from the p type source region and defining the channel region between the p type source region and the p type drain region.

In some embodiments the silicon carbide layer may include a p type silicon carbide layer including a JFET region adjacent to the n type well and the p type region may include a p type emitter region spaced apart from the JFET region and defining the channel region between the p type emitter region and the JFET region.

The methods may further include forming a threshold adjustment region between the source and drain regions. Forming the threshold adjustment region may include implanting p type dopant ions into the channel region to adjust a threshold of the channel region. The p type dopants may be implanted at a dose of about 5 10cmto about 5 10cmand or at an implant energy of at least about 25 keV.

In some embodiments the threshold adjustment region may be formed by forming an epitaxial layer on the silicon carbide layer and doping the epitaxial layer with a p type dopant. Forming the p type region may include implanting p type dopant ions into the epitaxial layer.

Forming the epitaxial layer may include doping the epitaxial layer with donor ions at a doping concentration of about 5 10cmto about 1 10cmduring epitaxial growth and then implanting p type dopant ions into the epitaxial layer to provide a net doping concentration of about 1 10cmto about 5 10cmin the epitaxial layer. The epitaxial layer may have a thickness of about 100 nm to about 500 nm.

A silicon carbide based transistor according to some embodiments of the invention includes a silicon carbide layer an n type well in the silicon carbide layer and a p type region in the n type well and at least partially defining a channel region in the n type well adjacent the p type region. The transistor further includes a threshold adjustment region in the channel region. The threshold adjustment region includes p type dopants at a net dopant concentration of about 1 10cm 3 to about 5 10cm. The transistor further includes a gate oxide layer on the channel region and a gate on the gate oxide layer. The channel region may have a hole mobility of at least about 5 cm V s at a gate voltage of 25V.

In some embodiments the silicon carbide layer may include an n type silicon carbide layer and the p type region may include a p type source region. The transistor may further include a p type drain region spaced apart from the p type source region and defining the channel region between the p type source region and the p type drain region.

In some embodiments the silicon carbide layer may include a p type silicon carbide layer including a JFET region adjacent to the n type well and the p type region may include a p type emitter region spaced apart from the JFET region and defining the channel region between the p type emitter region and the JFET region.

The threshold adjustment region may include an implanted region in the n type well and or an epitaxial layer on the n type silicon carbide layer. The epitaxial layer may have a thickness of about 100 nm to about 500 nm. In some embodiments the channel region may have a hole mobility of at least about 10 cm V s at a gate voltage of 25V and in some embodiments may have a hole mobility of at least about 13 cm V s at a gate voltage of 20V.

Embodiments of the present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms used herein should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this specification and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Relative terms such as below or above or upper or lower or horizontal or lateral or vertical may be used herein to describe a relationship of one element layer or region to another element layer or region as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that these terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the invention. The thickness of layers and regions in the drawings may be exaggerated for clarity. Additionally variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a discrete change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the actual shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are described with reference to semiconductor layers and or regions which are characterized as having a conductivity type such as n type or p type which refers to the majority carrier concentration in the layer and or region. Thus n type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of negatively charged electrons while p type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of positively charged holes. Some material may be designated with a or as in n n p p n n p p or the like to indicate a relatively larger or smaller concentration of majority carriers compared to another layer or region. However such notation does not imply the existence of a particular concentration of majority or minority carriers in a layer or region.

Some embodiments of the invention provide a silicon carbide electronic device including a p type channel region. The channel region of the device may exhibit a hole mobility in excess of 5 cm V s at a gate voltage of 25V and in some embodiments may exhibit a hole mobility in excess of 10 cm V s at a gate voltage of 25V. The increased hole mobility may be obtained using a dry wet oxidation process threshold adjustment and or high temperature activation anneals.

A metal oxide semiconductor MOS device according to some embodiments of the invention is illustrated in . As shown therein a substrate is provided that may be for example an n type silicon carbide substrate. The substrate may have a polytype of 2H 4H 6H 3C and or 15R. An n type epitaxial layer is formed on the substrate . An n type well region is formed in the epitaxial layer and spaced apart p type source and drain regions are formed in the well region at the surface of the epitaxial layer opposite the substrate . Source and drain ohmic contacts and are formed on the source and drain regions respectively.

A channel region extends at or near the surface of the epitaxial layer between the source and drain regions . A threshold adjustment region including p type dopants at a dopant concentration of about 1 10cmto about 5 10cmis in the channel region . A gate oxide layer and a gate are formed on the surface of the epitaxial layer above the channel region . A field oxide region is formed over the field region of the device . A body contact may be formed on the substrate .

Operations for forming the device illustrated in are illustrated in . Referring to the epitaxial layer formed on the substrate may include n type silicon carbide having a net doping concentration of about 5 10cmand having a thickness of about 5 m. The n type well region is formed for example via ion implantation in the epitaxial layer . The n type well region may be doped for example with nitrogen and or phosphorus atoms at a concentration of from about 1 10cmto about 5 10cm. In particular embodiments the n type well region may be doped with n type dopants such as nitrogen and or phosphorus at a concentration of about 5 10cm. The n type well region may be formed for example via implantation of ions having a total dose of 2.76 10cmand an implant energy of 360 keV at a temperature of 650 C. The well region may extend a depth of about 0.5 m into the epitaxial layer .

P type source and drain regions are formed in the n type well region for example by selective implantation of p type dopants such as boron and or aluminum atoms. The source and drain regions may be formed for example via implantation of boron or aluminum ions having a total dose of 8.1 10cmand an implant energy of 140 keV at a temperature of 650 C. The source and drain regions are spaced apart in the n type well region to define a channel region therebetween.

Conventional n channel SiC MOS devices typically have very low threshold voltages 0 2V which may preclude the use of a threshold adjustment implant in an enhancement mode device. However a p channel MOS device may have a large enough threshold voltage to allow the use of a threshold adjustment implant that may increase the mobility of carriers in the channel and or reduce the threshold voltage.

Referring to a mask is formed on the surface of the epitaxial layer and patterned to expose the channel region of the device . A threshold adjustment implant may be performed in a threshold adjustment region of the channel region in order to adjust the threshold voltage of the device . The threshold adjustment implant may be performed with a dose of from about 5 10cmto about 5 10cmdepending on the amount of threshold adjustment required. The resulting threshold adjustment region may have a thickness of about 100 nm to about 500 nm and may have a net dopant concentration of about 1 10cmto about 5 10cm. The species implanted may depend on the type of adjustment required. For example in order to reduce the threshold voltage of a p channel device an acceptor p type ion may be implanted as a p type dopant. In particular embodiments a threshold adjustment implant of aluminum may be performed at a dose of 3 10cm. The implant energy may be selected to position the channel at the surface of the device or at a desired distance from the surface. In some embodiments the threshold adjustment implant may be performed with an implant energy of at least about 25 keV. In some embodiments the threshold adjustment may include multiple implants. In particular embodiments the threshold adjustment may be accomplished by implanting aluminum ions with a dose of 8.4 10cmat 45 keV a dose of 1.12 10cmat 85 keV a dose of 1.52 10cmat 140 keV a dose of 1.92 10cmat 210 keV and a dose of 4.6 10cmat 330 keV for a total aluminum dose of 1 10cm. Following ion implantation the mask may be removed.

In conjunction with the threshold adjustment a high temperature activation anneal 1800 C. may enhance the activation of the threshold adjustment ions as well as annealing of defects in the channel region . Such a high temperature anneal may damage the surface of the silicon carbide epitaxial layer . In order to reduce such damage a graphite coating may be formed on the surface of the epitaxial layer . Referring to prior to annealing the device to activate the implanted ions a graphite coating may be applied to the top front side of the structure in order to protect the surface of the structure during the anneal. The graphite coating may be applied by a conventional resist coating method and may have a thickness of about 1 m. The graphite coating may be heated to form a crystalline coating on the epitaxial layer . The implanted ions may be activated by a thermal anneal that may be performed for example in an inert gas at a temperature of about 1700 C. or greater. In particular the thermal anneal may be performed at a temperature of about 1850 C. in argon for 5 minutes. The graphite coating may help to protect the surface of the epitaxial layer during the high temperature anneal.

Referring to a field oxide including for example 5000 of high temperature oxide may be deposited for example by high temperature chemical vapor deposition to isolate the device . The field oxide may be blanket deposited and subsequently patterned to expose the active region of the device including the source region the drain region and the channel region .

Following formation of the field oxide a gate oxide is grown on the exposed surface of the epitaxial layer . The gate oxide may be grown by a dry wet oxidation process that includes a growth of bulk oxide in dry Ofollowed by an anneal of the bulk oxide in wet Oas described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 972 801 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As used herein anneal of oxide in wet Orefers to anneal of an oxide in an ambient containing both Oand vaporized HO. An anneal may be performed in between the dry oxide growth and the wet oxide growth. The dry Ooxide growth may be performed for example in a quartz furnace tube at a temperature of up to about 1200 C. in dry Ofor a time of at least about 2.5 hours. Dry oxide growth is performed to grow the bulk oxide layer to a desired thickness. The temperature of the dry oxide growth may affect the oxide growth rate. For example higher process temperatures may produce higher oxide growth rates. The maximum growth temperature may be dependent on the system used. Higher temperatures may be achieved for the dry Ogrowth by using for example a silicon carbide furnace instead of a quartz tube. However higher temperatures may not improve the quality of the oxide.

In some embodiments the dry Ooxide growth may be performed at a temperature of about 1175 C. in dry Ofor about 3.5 hours. The resulting oxide layer may be annealed at a temperature of up to about 1200 C. in an inert atmosphere. In particular the resulting oxide layer may be annealed at a temperature of about 1175 C. in Ar for about 1 hour.

The wet Ooxide anneal may be performed at a temperature of about 950 C. or less for a time of at least about 1 hour. The temperature of the wet Oanneal may be limited to discourage further thermal oxide growth at the SiC SiOinterface which may introduce additional interface states. In particular the wet Oanneal may be performed in wet Oat a temperature of about 950 C. for about 3 hours. The resulting gate oxide layer may have a thickness of about 500 .

In some embodiments the steam used in the wet Oanneal process may be generated using a pyrogenic process and the resulting wet Oanneal may be referred to as a pyrogenic oxidation. Referring to in a pyrogenic oxidation oxygen O gas and hydrogen H gas are flowed into a pyrogenic chamber which is separate from the anneal chamber and which is heated to a high temperature such as about 800 C. The hydrogen and oxygen gas combust in the pyrogenic chamber and form a mixture of steam HO and oxygen O which is supplied to the anneal chamber .

In some cases it may be desirable to adjust the flow rates of hydrogen and oxygen into the pyrogenic chamber so that a molecular ratio of hydrogen to oxygen approaches but does not exceed a 2 1 ratio. That is it may be desirable for the mixture supplied to the anneal chamber to be as wet as possible within reasonable safety limits. In some cases a hydrogen oxygen ratio of 1.8 1 or 1.9 1 may be used.

The gate oxide layer may be characterized by a reduced interface state density Din the lower half of the bandgap of the oxide layer compared for example to a nitrided oxide layer on SiC or to an oxide layer that is only wet oxidized. For example is a graph of Dversus energy level for SiOlayers thermally grown on 4H SiC substrates. An oxide layer grown using a dry wet oxidation process as described above exhibited low interface state density in the lower half of the bandgap as shown by curve . However when an oxide layer grown using a dry wet oxidation process was subsequently annealed at about 1175 C. in an atmosphere containing nitric oxide NO the interface state density increased as shown by curve .

Referring again to a gate contact is formed on the gate oxide . The gate contact may include for example polysilicon doped with boron and may have a thickness of about 450 nm.

Source and drain ohmic contacts are formed on the source and drain regions respectively. The source and drain ohmic contacts may include about 50 80 nm of nickel and may be rapid thermal annealed at about 825 C. for about 2 minutes in an atmosphere of argon.

Conventional n channel metal oxide semiconductor MOS devices in silicon carbide may be improved through nitridation of the gate oxide as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 6 610 366 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Nitridation of the gate oxide may reduce the interface state density of the oxide in the upper half of the bandgap near the conduction band . However in p type MOS devices in SiC the oxide quality may be greatly affected by interface states in the lower half of the bandgap i.e. near the valence band . Nitridation may undesirably increase the density of interface states in the lower half of the bandgap.

In order to reduce an interface state density near the valence band in the gate oxide layer the oxide layer may be formed using a dry wet oxidation process as described above. In some embodiments the dry wet oxidation may be performed without exposing the oxide to nitrogen. The dry wet oxidation process described herein may be effective at reducing midgap interface states and interface states in the lower half of the bandgap of the oxide layer thereby providing an improved channel for a PMOS based device.

Further embodiments according to the invention are illustrated in . As shown therein after formation of the n type well region in the epitaxial layer by ion implantation a threshold adjustment layer may be formed by epitaxial regrowth on the epitaxial layer . The threshold adjustment layer may include about a layer of silicon carbide having a thickness of about 100 nm to about 500 nm doped with an acceptor at a concentration that provides an appropriate charge based on the thickness of the layer. The threshold adjustment layer may be doped during epitaxial growth and or may be doped via ion implantation after epitaxial growth. For example the threshold adjustment layer may be lightly doped with donor ions i.e. n type dopants during epitaxial growth e.g. at about 5 10cmto about 1 10cm and may be subsequently doped with acceptor ions such as aluminum and or boron at a net concentration of about 1 10cmto about 5 10cmusing ion implantation. In particular the threshold adjustment layer may include about 300 nm of silicon carbide doped with acceptor ions such as aluminum and or boron at a net concentration of about 1 10cm.

Referring to the p type source and drain regions may be implanted through the threshold adjustment layer into the n type well region . The remainder of the device processing including formation of the field oxide the gate oxide the gate contact and the source and drain ohmic contacts may proceed as described above.

A p channel MOS device having an oxide layer formed as described above may exhibit improved turn on and on state mobility characteristics as shown in . is a graph of MOS hole mobility versus gate voltage for p channel MOS test devices having gate oxide layers formed under different conditions on lightly doped channel regions. The hole mobility values shown in were obtained from transconductance measurements of the devices. Curve of is a graph of MOS hole mobility versus gate voltage for a p channel MOS device having a gate oxide layer fabricated using a dry wet oxidation process as described above. Comparative examples are represented by curves . Curve is a graph of MOS hole mobility versus gate voltage for a p channel MOS device having a gate oxide layer formed using a dry wet oxidation process as described above that has been annealed at about 1100 C. in an NO environment while curve is a graph of MOS hole mobility versus gate voltage for a p channel MOS device having a gate oxide layer formed using a dry wet oxidation process as described above that has been annealed at about 1175 C. in an NO environment. Curve is a graph of MOS hole mobility versus gate voltage for a p channel MOS device having a gate oxide layer grown using only wet oxidation. As shown in the device having a gate oxide layer formed using a dry wet oxidation process as described above and that is not annealed in NO has a lower turn on voltage and a higher peak mobility than the device formed using only wet oxidation and the devices in which the oxide layer was annealed in NO.

The 1800 C. annealed devices may continue to exhibit high mobility and enhancement mode operation even when operated at elevated temperatures as shown in which is a graph of MOS hole mobility Curve and threshold voltage Curve as a function of measurement temperature for a lateral MOS device according to embodiments of the invention. As shown in performance of an 1800 C. annealed device formed without pyrogenic wet oxidation at elevated temperatures shows phonon limited scattering and adequate threshold voltage for enhancement mode operation.

A SiC wafer typically has an RMS roughness Zof about 0.2 nm prior to annealing. The 1700 C. annealed wafer shown in has Zof 0.22 nm in an unimplanted channel region and 0.37 nm in the source n implanted region. The 1800 C. annealed wafer shown in has Zof 4.1 in an unimplanted channel region and 0.38 nm in the source n implanted region.

A unit cell of p channel planar IGBT structure according to some embodiments of the invention is shown in . A planar device structure such as the structure of the device shown in may provide process simplification and or enhanced device reliability. However other device structures may be advantageously employed.

The device of includes a p type buffer layer and a p drift epitaxial layer on an n type 8 off axis 4H SiC substrate . The p drift layer may have a thickness of about 100 m to about 120 m and may be doped with p type dopants at a doping concentration of about 2 10cmto about 6 10cmfor a blocking capability of about 10 kV. The p type buffer layer may have a thickness of about 1 to about 2 m and may be doped with p type dopants at a doping concentration of about 1 10cm. The p type buffer layer may be provided as a channel stop layer to prevent punch through.

The structure further includes n well regions and p emitter regions that may be formed by selective implantation of for example nitrogen and aluminum respectively. The junction depth of the n well regions may be about 0.5 m. The structure further includes n contact regions that extend from a surface of the drift layer into the n well regions . A guard ring based termination not shown may be provided around the device periphery.

A JFET region may be formed for example by implantation of aluminum in the drift layer between adjacent n well regions . The JFET region may be implanted with p type dopants to reduce the JFET resistance from the adjacent n well regions. In particular the JFET implantation dose may be selected to reduce the JFET resistance while keeping implant damage at an acceptable level. In some embodiments the JFET implantation may be performed at a dose sufficient to provide a dopant concentration of about 1 10cmin the JFET region. The JFET region may for example be formed by an epitaxial growth process.

In some embodiments a threshold adjustment region may be provided in the MOS channel region of the device . In particular a p type dopant such as aluminum may be implanted into the channel region of the n well regions between the p emitter regions and the JFET region to modify the threshold voltage and or to improve the inversion channel mobility. The threshold adjustment region may be formed using ion implantation and or epitaxial regrowth techniques. For example after an activation anneal of the n well regions and JFET implants a threshold adjustment region may be grown by epitaxial regrowth. In that case the threshold adjustment region may also permit formation of a deep n well that may prevent latch up by lifting the p type emitter implants to the threshold adjustment region regrowth layer. The deep n well may cause a lower n well resistance and may increase the device latch up current.

The threshold adjustment region may be formed by implantation of p type dopant ions with a dose of from about 5 10cmto about 5 10cmdepending on the amount of threshold adjustment required. In particular embodiments a threshold adjustment implant of aluminum may be performed at a dose of 3 10cm. The implant energy may be selected to position the channel at the surface of the device or at a desired distance from the surface. In some embodiments the threshold adjustment implant may be performed with an implant energy of at least about 25 keV. In some embodiments the threshold adjustment may include multiple implants. In particular embodiments the threshold adjustment may be accomplished by implanting aluminum ions with a dose of 8.4 10cmat 45 keV a dose of 1.12 10cmat 85 keV a dose of 1.52 10cmat 140 keV a dose of 1.92 10cmat 210 keV and a dose of 4.6 10cmat 330 keV for a total aluminum dose of 1 10cm. The threshold adjustment region may be formed by p type epitaxial growth which may provide a high channel mobility and or a long carrier lifetime.

All of the implanted dopants may be activated by annealing the structure at a temperature of about 1650 C. or greater with a silicon over pressure and or covered by an encapsulation layer such as a graphite film. A high temperature anneal may damage the surface of the silicon carbide epitaxy. In order to reduce such damage a graphite coating may be formed on the surface of the device. Prior to annealing the device to activate the implanted ions a graphite coating may be applied to the top front side of the structure in order to protect the surface of the structure during the anneal. The graphite coating may be applied by a conventional resist coating method and may have a thickness of about 1 m. The graphite coating may be heated to form a crystalline coating on the drift layer . The implanted ions may be activated by a thermal anneal that may be performed for example in an inert gas at a temperature of about 1650 C. or greater. In particular the thermal anneal may be performed at a temperature of about 1700 C. in argon for 5 minutes. The graphite coating may help to protect the surface of the drift layer during the high temperature anneal.

After implant annealing a field oxide not shown of silicon dioxide having a thickness of about 1 m is deposited and patterned to expose the active region of the device.

A gate oxide layer may be formed by a gate oxidation process with a final gate oxide thickness of 400 600 .

In particular the gate oxide may be grown by a dry wet oxidation process that includes a growth of bulk oxide in dry Ofollowed by an anneal of the bulk oxide in wet Oas described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 972 801 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As used herein anneal of oxide in wet Orefers to anneal of an oxide in an ambient containing both Oand vaporized HO. An anneal may be performed in between the dry oxide growth and the wet oxide growth. The dry Ooxide growth may be performed for example in a quartz tube at a temperature of up to about 1200 C. in dry Ofor a time of at least about 2.5 hours. Dry oxide growth is performed to grow the bulk oxide layer to a desired thickness. The temperature of the dry oxide growth may affect the oxide growth rate. For example higher process temperatures may produce higher oxide growth rates. The maximum growth temperature may be dependent on the system used.

In some embodiments the dry Ooxide growth may be performed at a temperature of about 1175 C. in dry Ofor about 3.5 hours. The resulting oxide layer may be annealed at a temperature of up to about 1200 C. in an inert atmosphere. In particular the resulting oxide layer may be annealed at a temperature of about 1175 C. in Ar for about 1 hour. The wet Ooxide anneal may be performed at a temperature of about 950 C. or less for a time of at least about 1 hour. The temperature of the wet Oanneal may be limited to discourage further thermal oxide growth at the SiC SiOinterface which may introduce additional interface states. In particular the wet Oanneal may be performed in wet Oat a temperature of about 950 C. for about 3 hours. The resulting gate oxide layer may have a thickness of about 500 .

After formation of the gate oxide a polysilicon gate may be deposited and doped for example with boron followed by a metallization process to reduce the gate resistance. Al Ni contacts may be deposited as the p type ohmic emitter contact metal and Ni as the n type collector contact metal . All contacts may be sintered in a Rapid Thermal Annealer RTA and thick Ti Au layers may be used for pad metals.

Silicon carbide p channel MOS structures according to some embodiments of the invention may exhibit reduced threshold voltages and or higher on state hole mobility compared to conventional silicon carbide p channel MOS structures. Accordingly p channel MOS structures according to some embodiments of the invention may be utilized in any semiconductor device having a p channel MOS structure such as p channel MOSFETs and or p channel insulated gated bipolar transistors P IGBTs .

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

