---

title: Vehicle user interface systems and methods
abstract: A control system for mounting in a vehicle and for providing information to a portable electronic device for processing by the portable electronic device is shown and described. The control system includes a first interface for communicating with the portable electronic device and a memory device. The control system also includes a processing circuit communicably coupled to the first interface and the memory device, the processing circuit configured to extract information from the memory device and to provide the information to the first interface so that the first interface communicates the information to the portable electronic device. The processing circuit is further configured to determine the capabilities of the portable electronic device based on data received from the portable electronic device via the first interface and to determine whether or not to communicate the information to the portable electronic device based on the determined capabilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08447598&OS=08447598&RS=08447598
owner: Johnson Controls Technology Company
number: 08447598
owner_city: Holland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110114
---
The present application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 794 490 filed Jun. 4 2010 which is a Continuation of International Application No. PCT US2008 085570 filed Dec. 4 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 005 419 filed Dec. 5 2007. The foregoing applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates generally to the fields of communication navigation and or user control in a motor vehicle.

Vehicles typically include a number of electronics systems and subsystems such as an audio system a mobile telephone system a navigation system an in vehicle entertainment system an HVAC system an engine management system and the like that may be controlled by an in vehicle user interface and an in vehicle control system.

Conventional vehicle control systems typically do not interface well with remote sources and portable devices such as cellular phones. Even when vehicle control systems are configured to interface with remote sources and portable devices the human machine interfaces and processing electronics are typically separate look very different and are difficult to use together. Applications provided on a portable device are typically not configured to interact with a vehicle and vice versa. There is a need for improved user interface features and or connectivity features relating to vehicle control systems remote sources and or portable devices. There is a need for effective display reproduction and or user interface reproduction from a remote source to an in vehicle display or other in vehicle interface.

It would be desirable to provide a system and or method that satisfies one or more of these needs or provides other advantageous features. Other features and advantages will be made apparent from the present specification. The teachings disclosed extend to those embodiments that fall within the scope of the disclosure regardless of whether they accomplish one or more of the aforementioned needs.

One embodiment relates to a control system for mounting in a vehicle and for providing information to a portable electronic device for processing by the portable electronic device. The control system includes a first interface for communicating with the portable electronic device and a memory device. The control system also includes a processing circuit communicably coupled to the first interface and the memory device the processing circuit configured to extract information from the memory device and to provide the information to the first interface so that the first interface communicates the information to the portable electronic device. The processing circuit is further configured to determine the capabilities of the portable electronic device based on data received from the portable electronic device via the first interface and to determine whether or not to communicate the information to the portable electronic device based on the determined capabilities. The first interface may be or include a transceiver configured to form a wireless communication with a portable electronic device or circuitry and or connection hardware for forming a wired connection to the portable electronic device.

Another embodiment relates to using a vehicle control system for voice typing purposes. The vehicle control system includes an interface for coupling to an audio input device mounted to the vehicle interior and for receiving voice information from a user. The interface may be circuitry and or connection hardware for forming a functional connection to an audio input device such as a microphone. A processing circuit of the vehicle control system includes a speech recognition module configured to convert the voice information received at the second interface into text characters. The text characters from the speech recognition module are transmitted to the portable electronic device from the processing circuit and or a transmitter associated therewith. The vehicle control system can also include an interface for providing display information to an electronic display device mounted to the vehicle interior and the processing circuit may be configured to enter a voice typing mode of operation. During the voice typing mode of operation the processing circuit can be configured to cause the electronic display device to display the text characters from the speech recognition module. The processing circuit may be further configured to magnify a recently converted text character relative to previously converted text characters on the electronic display device. The processing circuit may also be configured to communicate the text characters to the portable electronic device in a format that causes the text characters to be entered into a text field displayed on the portable electronic device. The processing circuit can also be configured to communicate the text characters to the portable electronic device in a format that causes the portable electronic device to provide the text characters to an application running on the portable electronic device e.g. a text messaging application a calendaring application a mobile commerce application a web browsing application a gaming application a navigation application an e mail application a media application and a notes application etc. .

Another embodiment relates to using a vehicle control system configured to transmit information to a portable electronic device the information being formatted for further processing by a software application of the portable electronic device. The format may be a WAP format a WXML format an HTML format an XHTML format an XML format and or any other suitable format for transferring over a radio frequency wireless communications link from a vehicle control system to a nearby portable electronic device. The vehicle control system may further include an interface configured to receive position information from at least one of a global positioning system receiver and a compass. The information communicated to the portable electronic device may include the position information. The position information may be formatted to be transmitted to a remote source from the portable electronic device and or transmitted to the portable electronic device with data for transmitting the position information to the remote source from the portable electronic device.

Another embodiment relates to using a vehicle control system having a processing circuit configured to receive information regarding a vehicle operational mode e.g. from a vehicle subsystem and to provide information to a portable electronic device including a command to disable a feature of the portable electronic device. The operational mode may be a driving mode and the information provided to the portable electronic device may include a command to disable at least one of a local display of the portable electronic device a text messaging capability of the portable electronic device and an e mail capability of the portable electronic device. The processing circuit may be configured to send the command to the phone based on a speed of the vehicle.

Another embodiment relates to a vehicle control system having a processing circuit configured to utilize the vehicle subsystem information and position information received from a global position system receiver to calculate a precise vehicle location relative to the position information. The precise vehicle location information may be transmitted to the portable electronic device for processing display storage or otherwise. The processing circuit may be further configured to utilize locationing information received and or determined by the portable electronic device in the calculation of the precise vehicle location.

Another embodiment relates to a vehicle control system having a processing circuit configured to send information to a portable electronic device the information may include software update information formatted for installation on the portable electronic device once received by the portable electronic device and or a command for the portable electronic device to obtain a software update from a remote source. The processing circuit is configured to determine whether or not the portable electronic device is in need of the update based on capabilities of the portable electronic device determined by the processing circuit based on data received from the portable electronic device. The processing circuit may also or alternatively be configured to use data received from the portable electronic device to determine whether an update is available for the processing circuit and or for another vehicle subsystem. The processing circuit may be configured to request the update from a remote source via the portable electronic device receive the update via the first interface from the portable electronic device and the remote source and or to process the update.

Alternative exemplary embodiments relate to other features and combinations of features as may be generally recited in the claims.

Before turning to the figures which illustrate the exemplary embodiments in detail it should be understood that the application is not limited to the details or methodology set forth in the description or illustrated in the figures. It should also be understood that the terminology is for the purpose of description only and should not be regarded as limiting.

The vehicle control systems described in are examples of a vehicle systems that may be used in conjunction with the systems and methods of the present disclosure. Control circuits and processing components of the vehicle control systems shown in can be configured to complete and or facilitate the features described herein. For example executable computer code for conducting one or more of the processes described herein may be stored in a memory device communicably coupled to a processing circuit or component configured to execute the stored computer code.

Referring to a perspective view of vehicle is illustrated. Vehicle includes a number of subsystems for user convenience and entertainment. For example vehicle may include a heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC system a sound system and a vehicle control system e.g. media system navigational system entertainment system display system communications systems etc. . The HVAC system sound system and other systems may be coupled to vehicle control system which is capable of controlling and monitoring a variety of systems automatically or by a manual user command. It is noted that in various exemplary embodiments vehicle the HVAC system the sound system and other vehicle systems may be of any past present or future design capable of being physically coupled to communicably coupled to and interacting with vehicle control system .

Referring to one exemplary embodiment of vehicle control system is shown. Vehicle control system generally includes an output display one or more knobs one or more pushbuttons and one or more tactile user inputs or pushbuttons which facilitate controlling various vehicle functions. Output display may be configured to display data related to the control of the vehicle functions. In one exemplary embodiment output display may be a touch screen display while in other exemplary embodiments may be anon touch sensitive display. In still other exemplary embodiments output display may be of any technology e.g. LCD DLP plasma CRT configuration e.g. portrait or landscape or shape e.g. polygonal curved curvilinear . Output display may be a manufacturer installed output display an aftermarket output display or an output display provided by or installed by any other source. Output display may be an embedded display e.g. a display embedded in the control system or other vehicle systems parts or structures a standalone display e.g. a portable display a display mounted on a movable arm or a display having any other configuration. User interface elements e.g. output knobs and pushbuttons and may be configured to control functions of the HVAC system such as fan speed cabin temperature or routing of air flow to control playback of media files over the sound system to control retrieval of phonebook entries to control a function of a connected remote source or to control any other desired vehicle function.

User interface elements such as pushbuttons typically allow for the selection and display of various functions of vehicle control system including sound system control media system control display system control communications system control hands free phone use HVAC system control contact or address phone book management calendar viewing and modification and vehicle data logging. The operation of pushbutton for media playback may display a media playback menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to view select sort search for and or play audio or video files by tactile or oral command. The operation of pushbutton for hands free phone operation may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to connect vehicle control system to a mobile phone so that speaking into the vehicle console of vehicle control system operates the mobile phone. The operation of pushbutton for HVAC control may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to control cabin temperature and air flow by tactile or oral command. The operation of pushbutton for contact management may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to view list select sort search for edit and or dial one or more entries containing personal contact information by use of a tactile or oral command. The operation of pushbutton for calendar management may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to view list select sort search for edit and or create one or more entries containing personal schedule information by tactile or oral command. The operation of pushbutton for vehicle log management may display a menu screen or execute commands that allow the user to input view select and or reset information related to the vehicle operation e.g. fuel economy engine temperature distance to empty etc. by tactile or oral command.

Pushbuttons and or any other user interface element s of vehicle control system may be used to control other vehicle subsystems such as but not limited to vehicle door locking systems vehicle cruise control systems seat control systems window control systems hands free communication systems vehicle lighting systems vehicle radio systems wireless control systems media control systems and or any other control system that may accept user input. According to an exemplary embodiment user interface elements display elements audio input and output elements and the like mounted in the vehicle and communicably coupled to vehicle control system may be used to provide input and or output features to a connected e.g. wired wirelessly portable electronic device brought into the vehicle.

Referring now to a portable electronic device is shown near and in communication with vehicle control system . According to various exemplary embodiments portable electronic device may communicably couple to vehicle control system via a wired or wireless connection. In the embodiment shown in portable electronic device may attach to or physically rest in a holder configured to hold portable electronic device and provide a physical connection e.g. a power charging connection a communication link connection etc. to vehicle control system . According to one exemplary embodiment the connection may allow for information to be transmitted between portable electronic device and vehicle control system e.g. the display of portable electronic device is shown duplicated on display of vehicle control system and display may be altered using pushbuttons . As shown vehicle control system and more particularly display is replicating display information shown on portable electronic device s display . According to various alternative embodiments user interface features of vehicle control system can be shared with connected portable electronic device portable device can replicate display information shown on display vehicle control system can provide information to portable electronic device for additional processing and or portable electronic device can provide information to vehicle control system for processing.

Referring now to vehicle control system is capable of accessing data e.g. pieces of information commands streaming information data files etc. from a portable electronic device or another remote source over a communication link . For example vehicle control system may access media files phonebook data files display information voice information applications application programming interfaces APIs calendar data or any other accessible data for use by vehicle control system . Vehicle control system may be capable of accessing data files from multiple remote sources over a single communication link or multiple communication links. Vehicle control system may also send and receive requests signals files commands messages e.g. text messages voice messages etc. voice information audio information display information meta information stream data or information and any other type of data to and or from portable electronic device and or another remote source over communication link .

Vehicle control system is shown to include a communication device a data processing system a display driver a user interface an audio input device an audio output device an output display and a memory device .

Communication device is generally configured to establish communication link with portable electronic device or another remote source . In one exemplary embodiment vehicle control system may establish a wireless communication link such as with a Bluetooth communications protocol an IEEE 802.11 protocol an IEEE 802.15 protocol an IEEE 802.16 protocol a cellular phone protocol another mobile phone protocol a shared wireless access protocol cord access SWAP CA protocol a wireless universal serial bus USB protocol or any other suitable wireless technology. In another exemplary embodiment vehicle control system may establish a wired communication link such as with USB technology IEEE 1394 technology Firewire technology optical technology other serial or parallel port technology or any other suitable wired link. According to various other exemplary embodiments vehicle control system and or communication device may form wireless and or wired connections with a plurality of device and source and . Communication links may be formed such that communication device may be simultaneously connected to multiple device and source and . Communication device may send and receive one or more data streams data strings data files and or other types of information e.g. non file based data file based data etc. from connected devices and remote sources. In various exemplary embodiments the communicated information may be represent or include text numeric data audio video program data command data information data coordinate data image data streaming media or any combination thereof.

Data processing system e.g. processing electronics processing circuit processing system etc. is coupled to communications device and is generally configured to control and or facilitate each function of vehicle control system . Data processing system may facilitate speech recognition capabilities of vehicle control system for the convenience of the user. Data processing system may include digital or analog processing components and or be of any past present or future design that facilitates control or provides processing features to vehicle control system . Data processing system may be a single data processing device or multiple data processing devices. Data processing system may be a data processing device having data processing sub devices or components. Data processing system may include any combination of program software and hardware capable of providing control display communications input and output features to the vehicle. Data processing system may coordinate control and or facilitate the various devices components and features of vehicle control system e.g. communications device output display display driver memory device audio system user interface audio input device audio output device etc .

According to an exemplary embodiment data processing system is communicably coupled to memory device and is configured to extract information from memory device and to provide information to a first interface such as communication device or wired interface so that the first interface communicates the information to the portable electronic device connected via a wired or wireless connection. Data processing system may further be configured to determine the capabilities of the connected portable electronic device based on data received from the portable electronic device via the first interface and to determine whether or not to communicate the information e.g. certain types of information specific information update information navigation information information for processing by the portable electronic device etc. to the portable electronic device based on the determined capabilities.

Display driver is coupled to output display and is typically configured to provide an electronic signal to output display . In one exemplary embodiment the electronic signal may include the text and or numeric data of the data files while in other exemplary embodiments any other desired data may be included with the text and or numeric data or by itself in the electronic signal to output display . In another exemplary embodiment display driver may be configured to control output display with touch screen capabilities while in other exemplary embodiments display driver may be configured to control output display without making use of touch screen capabilities. Display driver may include any number of functions software or hardware to facilitate the control and display of images on output display . In still other exemplary embodiments display driver may be of any past present or future design that allows for the control of output display .

User interface is typically configured to facilitate tactile user interaction with vehicle control system . In various exemplary embodiments user interface may include pushbuttons or rotatable knobs as in the exemplary embodiment of in any similar or dissimilar configuration or may include other tactile user contact points.

Audio input device for example a microphone is configured to receive the utterance of a user for transmission to data processing system for speech recognition so that the functions of vehicle control system may be operated by voice command. Audio output device for example a built in speaker is configured to provide the user with an audio prompt of various functions such as user selection confirmation.

Memory device is configured to store information and data for accessing by vehicle control system . For example memory device may store data input by remote source data created by data processing system that may be used later intermediate data of use in current calculation or process computer code for execution by data processing system e.g. the computer code for completing the various processes described herein any other information or data of use by vehicle control system and or information that may be communicated to a connected portable electronic device or remote source.

Referring still to vehicle control system is shown to includes interfaces . Interfaces can include any hardware and or electronics for communicably coupling to each interface s respective connected device. The interfaces can include electronics local to the vehicle control system which may connect directly or indirectly to the portable electronic device. In some embodiments one or more cords connectors or other electronics may be included with or between the vehicle control system interfaces and the portable electronic devices.

Audio input interface can be configured to physically couple a audio input device e.g. via a corded connection to vehicle control system . Signals from audio input device can be received at audio input interface filtered interpreted or otherwise processed and routed or provided to electronics of vehicle control system e.g. to data processing system or another processing circuit of the vehicle control system . Electronics interface may be configured to communicably couple to wiring a harness or another connection scheme associated with user interface electronics . For example buttons switches LEDs or other user interface elements located throughout the vehicle interior may provide signals to and or receive signals from electronics interface . Electronics interface may be configured to control the activity of the connected user interface elements interpret received signals and or to route received signals to appropriate processing circuitry such as data processing system . Audio output device interface may be configured to receive audio signals from data processing system or other processing circuitry of vehicle control system and to provide the received audio signals to audio output device . Audio output interface may convert digital signals to analog amplify the signals normalize the signals or otherwise before providing the signals or a transformed version of the audio signals to audio output device . Display interface may be configured to receive control signals from data processing system or other processing circuitry of vehicle control system convert the control signals into analog or digital signals for the particular output display connected to display interface or otherwise configured to provide display information from vehicle control system to output display . Audio system interface may be configured to receive signals from data processing system or other processing circuitry of vehicle control system and to route the signals to audio system . Audio interface may conduct any number of processing tasks e.g. A D conversion D A conversion decoding normalizing filtering etc. on audio signals prior to providing the audio signals or a transformed version of the audio signals to audio system . Wired interface may include any number of jacks terminals solder points cords or other hardware for physically coupling a cord or other hardware linkage system formed between wired interface and remote source that may include a wired port. Wired interface may be configured similarly or differently from wired interface and may be configured to physically couple directly or indirectly personal electronic device to vehicle control system and or to vehicle control system s processing electronics e.g. data processing system . Wired interfaces may be for example a USB terminal and associated hardware as described below or otherwise. According to other exemplary embodiments wired interfaces may be proprietary interfaces e.g. an Apple iPod interface etc. . Wired interfaces may merely include connectors or terminals for connecting vehicle control system and another device or can be or include the connectors or terminals in addition to electronics e.g. filters converters security circuitry power charging circuitry that facilitates the communicative functional connection between vehicle control system e.g. and its various processing circuitry and the connected devices. According to various exemplary embodiments communication device may be considered an interface for wirelessly connecting vehicle control system and remote or portable devices such as portable device and remote source .

Referring to vehicle control system is shown in greater detail and as communicating with a number of different systems devices via wired or wireless communications. Data processing system is shown to include a text to grammar device a speech recognition device and a text to speech device . Data processing system may include any number of additional hardware modules software modules or processing devices e.g. additional graphics processors communications processors etc. .

Text to grammar device is preferably coupled to communication device and is generally configured to generate a phonemic representation of text and or numeric data provided to the text to grammar device. The text and or numeric data can be provided to text to grammar device by data processing device memory device and or communication device . The vehicle control system may receive the text and or numeric data from any number of the wired or wirelessly connected remote sources. The phonetic representation of the text and or numeric data may be configured to facilitate speech recognition of the text or numeric data. After conversion of a set of text e.g. a command a word etc. to a phonemic representation an associated data file command or device may be accessed or requested via an oral input received by speech recognition device and by audio input device .

Speech recognition device is typically configured to receive an oral input command from a user via audio input device . Speech recognition device compares the received oral input command to a set of predetermined input commands which may have been generated or configured by text to grammar device . In various exemplary embodiments the input commands may be related to the playback of a media file the dialing or input of a phone book entry the entry or listing of calendar or contact data the control of the HVAC system a vehicle navigation system command a portable electronic device feature or any other desired function to be performed on data. Speech recognition device may determine an appropriate response to the oral input command received from the user for example whether the oral input command is a valid or invalid instruction what command to execute whether the command should be provided on to a connected portable electronic device or other remote source or any other appropriate response. According to an exemplary embodiment speech recognition device may be able to trigger or activate processing activities and features of a connected portable electronic device. For example speech recognition device may be able to pass commands to mobile device to facilitate interactive control of mobile device via communication link .

Text to speech device is generally configured to convert the text and or numeric information of a data file data stream or other data received from mobile device recalled from memory device or otherwise received into an audible speech representation e.g. an audio file for playback audio data for playback by a vehicle audio system etc. . This functionality may allow vehicle control system to audibly provide feedback or other data to the user via audio output device or audio system . For example vehicle control system may repeat a user selected function back to the user provide navigational information announce directions announce menu options announce media file information provide phonebook or contact information or other information related to data stored in memory remote source remote server etc.

According to various other exemplary embodiments text to grammar functionality speech recognition functionality and text to speech functionality are implemented primarily in software e.g. executable modules stored in memory computer code stored in memory etc. and executed by data processing system which may be a general purpose data processing system. According to yet other exemplary embodiments text to grammar functionality speech recognition functionality and text to speech functionality are implemented partially in software and partially in hardware.

Memory device is shown to include both a volatile memory and a non volatile memory . Volatile memory may be configured so that the contents stored therein may be erased during each power cycle of vehicle control system or vehicle . Non volatile memory may be configured so that the contents stored therein may be retained across power cycles such that upon vehicle control system and or vehicle power up data from previous system use remains available for the user. According to an exemplary embodiment non volatile memory may store one or more user profiles executable computer code files navigation information display information logic modules display profiles communications profiles navigation profiles and or any other type of user or system setting file.

According to an exemplary embodiment vehicle control system may be configured to communicate e.g. wired wirelessly with any suitable remote source e.g. that includes a transceiver that is able to interface with vehicle control system . In various exemplary embodiments a connected remote source or portable electronic device may be one or more of a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a personal navigation device PND a pager a remote server that may be coupled to the Internet a handheld personal computer or various other remote data sources. Connected portable electronic devices may include a storage device one or more processing devices and one or more communications devices. According to various exemplary embodiments connected portable electronic devices such as mobile device may connect to the Internet or any other remote source with first communication device while communicating with vehicle control system using second communication device .

Referring now to a block diagram of a display reproduction system is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Display reproduction system may generally include a portable device display of a portable electronic device and a vehicle display e.g. a display such as output display of vehicle control system . Portable device display is shown to include a first display portion and a second display portion . The portable device of portable device display may generally be configured to send an image of one or more portable display portions to vehicle control system for reproduction on vehicle display . According to the embodiment shown in only second display portion of portable device display is sent to vehicle display for reproduction. Even when only a single display portion is reproduced on vehicle display an image representing the entire display shown on the portable device may be transmitted to a vehicle system. A check bit command or other code sent with the image to the vehicle system may indicate which portion of the image to reproduce. According to other exemplary embodiments only the portion for reproduction on the vehicle display is sent from portable device display to vehicle display . A vehicle system may send the portable device an indication of vehicle display size resolution vehicle display size dedicated to display reproduction or other information for describing attributes of the vehicle display.

According to an embodiment where a navigation graphical user interface GUI of the portable device is reproduced on vehicle display the navigation software of the portable device may operate with or may be software specifically configured for display reproduction on vehicle display . This software may have the brand or otherwise similar look and feel of the vehicle interfaces. The software may include a definition of the display portion that should be transmitted to vehicle display . The software may be configured to only send the most important portion of the navigational image or GUI shown on portable device display . Advantageously this software can be resident and replaceable on portable device display thereby allowing accommodation to new software on portable device display without requiring changes to the software associated with the vehicle. According to other exemplary embodiments the vehicle or the portable device may be configured to make a determination that the images shown on portable device display would not fit or otherwise be totally represented on vehicle display and to request and or send a partial image based on the determination.

Vehicle display may be mounted integrated or otherwise provided to the vehicle interior. According to an exemplary embodiment the display portion for reproduction is provided to a car head medium display or a head up display. According to an exemplary embodiment a vehicle control system of vehicle display includes user interfaces and logic for allowing the user to toggle and or adjust display reproduction settings. The vehicle control system may be configured to allow a user to set conditions for display reproduction and or frequency of reproduction. For example in the situation in which the reproduced image is shown on a car medium display or head up display the user may choose to display the reproduced image or images prior to making changes in direction merges turns or otherwise. By way of further example the vehicle control system may reproduce images when the portable device issues acoustic directions. The reproduced image s may be displayed for some period of time seconds minutes etc. after the acoustic instructions have completed.

According to various exemplary embodiments the vehicle control system and or vehicle display system are configured to magnify invert sharpen process stretch crop overlay process or otherwise enhance any image portion received from the portable device. The enhancement activity may be user selectable and multiple enhancement activities may be provided at any one time or to any one image. For example the vehicle control system might be configured to receive a second display portion to invert the colors on the image for easier readability to adjust the contrast of the image to adjust the brightness of the image to outline certain elements of the image to magnify the image to resize the image and or to soften the edges or provide anti aliasing processing to the image.

Referring now to a block diagram of portable device and vehicle control system for inheriting functions of portable device and or for providing functions to portable device is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. The functionality of portable device and or vehicle control system can be varied. Some functionalities of portable device may be complex to operate when driving. Other functionalities of portable device may generate and or display quickly changing or detailed images that would not be appropriate to operate while the vehicle is in motion. Further some features of portable device may not normally be available on vehicle control system and vise versa. Portable device and or vehicle control system may be configured to utilize features and data of the other device. Portable device may include display as described with reference to . In portable device is also shown to include various modules e.g. hardware and or software modules components .

World clock information may be sent from portable device to vehicle control system for display use in an emergency system updating of vehicle clocks or otherwise.

Navigational features navigational databases and or map information may be provided from portable device to vehicle control system for display and or processing. Navigational features navigational databases and or map information from vehicle control system may also be provided to portable device for display and or further processing.

Human machine interface HMI elements of portable device may be used by HMI configuration engine of vehicle control system for display reproduction voice recognition and or for transferring data between portable device and vehicle control system .

A voice recognition engine of portable device may be used by voice recognition system of vehicle control system to provide additional features and extra processing capability to vehicle control system and or to the user s in vehicle command and control experience.

Media decoding elements provided on portable device may be used to decode audio files stored on portable device and or vehicle control system . The decoded audio and or a transformed data stream or file may be provided from portable device to vehicle control system for storage further processing and or output via vehicle audio system .

Connectivity applications of portable device may be utilized by vehicle control system . For example a TCP IP stack communications protocol modules security software decryption algorithms browser software or other communications or connectivity software may be utilized by vehicle control system to complete vehicle control system communications tasks and or to retrieve information e.g. from another remote source or a remote server for forwarding to vehicle control system .

A calendar application of portable device may be utilized by vehicle control system to receive calendar data from portable electronic device memory and or a remote source to receive alerts reminders schedule information calendar display information a mechanism for accepting or rejecting meeting requests or otherwise. According to various alternative embodiments vehicle control system may include a calendar feature and may be configured to synchronize data with calendar application a database of portable device and or an remote calendaring data source e.g. an enterprise server accessible via the Internet .

An E Mail feature of portable device may be utilized by vehicle control system to receive E Mail text to synchronize stored e mail information to reproduce an inbox view to play back voice mails residing in an E Mail inbox to draft and send an E Mail e.g. using a voice typing and or voice recognition feature of the vehicle or otherwise.

A text messaging feature of portable device may be utilized by vehicle control system to receive text messages to send text messages to reproduce an inbox view to draft and send a text message e.g. using the voice recognition feature of the vehicle to synchronize text messages with text messages stored in vehicle memory or otherwise. According to an exemplary embodiment text messages received by the portable electronic device are provided to a connected vehicle control system for display and or audio output by the vehicle control system e.g. and connected displays audio systems etc. .

A voice mail feature of portable device may be utilized by vehicle control system to display or audibly provide an indication that a new message has arrived the number of new messages the number of undeleted messages the number of saved messages the contents of the voice mail via audio and or text via a speech to text module provided in the vehicle etc. or otherwise.

Web services of portable device may be utilized by vehicle control system to provide web based transmissions and or receptions of information to parse information to display information to provide access to Internet based information to provide access to applications on portable device to provide access to hardware of portable device or for other purposes.

Video services of the portable device may be utilized by vehicle control system to provide video decoding and or playback features to the vehicle. For example while vehicle control system may include provisions for playing a standard MPEG file and video services of portable electronic device may include an updated codec and or application for decoding a media file stored on portable device or vehicle control system . Vehicle control system may provide data e.g. data files streaming data to portable device for processing. Video services and or portable electronic device may be configured to provide the results of such processing back to vehicle control system for storage and or output e.g. display output audio output .

A flash memory element or other memory element of portable device may be utilized by vehicle control system and or portable electronic device to store media files configuration files and or any other type of files or information. According to an exemplary embodiment memory element may be used to provide updates e.g. application updates firmware updates etc. to portable electronic device and or for vehicle control system .

Games provided on portable device may be provided to vehicle control system and or to a vehicle display or vehicle audio system thereof. Vehicle control system may be configured to forward game information to a rear seat entertainment system wireless headphones via a vehicle mounted transmitter or otherwise.

Home status information available at portable device may be forwarded to vehicle control system for processing display and or user alerts. For example portable device may be configured to receive an alert from a home security system. The alert may be forwarded from portable device to vehicle control system for display processing and or audible indication. Further commands generated at a vehicle user interface may be provided to portable device for processing execution and or forwarding commands or requests to the home security system.

Stock market information or applications available on portable device may be forwarded retrieved or otherwise communicated from portable device to vehicle control system . According to an exemplary embodiment requests for stock information may be generated by a vehicle user interface and or vehicle control system and provided to the portable electronic device for processing and or for retrieval by the portable electronic device e.g. from a remote source . According to an exemplary embodiment for example a request for updated stock ticker information may be formed at the vehicle control system e.g. by prompting for and receiving one or more ticker symbols . The vehicle control system can interface with an application on the portable electronic device for requesting and retrieving updated ticker information e.g. price from a remote source e.g. an Internet source . The results can be processed by the portable electronic device e.g. to generate a chart percentage change etc. and provided to the vehicle control system from the portable electronic device for storage and or display.

Referring still to vehicle control system is shown as communicably coupled to various vehicle components. For example vehicle tactile controls associated with vehicle control system may be used to control portable device activities and or to make selections of display elements reproduced on vehicle display . A vehicle touch screen may be used to provide touch screen features to portable device or to send other control signals to the portable device . A vehicle microphone may be used for detection and interpretation of vocal utterances. The utterances or information representing the utterances may then sent from vehicle control system to portable device for processing. In some exemplary embodiments the utterances may be processed by the vehicle control system to generate requests or commands for providing to the portable electronic device for processing e.g. by an application of the portable electronic device for forwarding to a remote system from the portable electronic device etc. . Vehicle display and vehicle audio system are also coupled to vehicle control system as described in or otherwise .

A GPS receiver of vehicle control system may be configured to send location and or heading information to portable device for use in one or more applications or for transmission to another remote source. According to an exemplary embodiment a processing system of vehicle control system can be configured to receive subsystem information and to provide dead reckoning processing to the location information received by GPS receiver using the subsystem information.

A processing system of vehicle control system may be used to process information files or streams provided by portable device . Similarly a processing system of portable device may be configured to process information files streams or signals provided from vehicle control system to portable device . According to an exemplary embodiment the processor the processor of the vehicle control system or the portable electronic device more suitable and or available for processing certain elements or tasks may be used to process those elements or tasks. Processing system may be similar to data processing system of vehicle control system as described in .

A voice recognition system e.g. a system including various text and speech devices as described in and or human machine interface HMI configuration engine provided with vehicle control system may be used to provide control to portable device . HMI configuration engine may be used to customize the graphical user interfaces or other interfaces e.g. voice recognition interfaces button functions touch screen configuration etc. .

In situations where a normal display mode and or menu mode of portable electronic device is not desirable for display reproduction or otherwise portable electronic device may be configured to switch from a normal mode of operation to a vehicle mode of operation.

Referring to a portable electronic device is shown in detail according to an exemplary embodiment. Portable electronic device is shown to include a memory device a wireless transceiver a processing system and a wired interface . Memory device is shown to include vehicle mode information e.g. information relating to a vehicle mode of operation normal mode information and a mode switching module . Processing system may be a general processing system configured to execute computer code a specialized processing system and or a collection of circuitry for completing the activities described herein. Vehicle mode information may include relative to the normal mode of operation parameters for anew GUI theme a new GUI color scheme new display driver settings software elements configured to generate displays suitable for display reproduction or otherwise. Vehicle mode information may also include feature suppression commands or settings such that portable device suppresses unsafe and or complicated features or screens from use during a vehicle mode. Mode switching module may be provided and may include computer code scripts or macros for switching from a normal mode of operation to a vehicle mode of operation. According to an exemplary embodiment mode switching module is a web service application programming interface or other server or service configured to receive a command request or other information from a vehicle control system the receipt of which is processed and causes the portable electronic device to controllably switch from mode to mode or to enable disable certain features. Portable device may use wireless transceiver and wired interface for connecting wirelessly or via a wired connection respectively with a vehicle control system.

Referring also to a vehicle control system process for interacting with a portable device having vehicle mode features is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process includes establishing a communication link wired or wireless with a portable device step . Process further includes sending a command to enter a vehicle mode to the portable device step . Any number of handshaking steps and or querying steps may additionally take place. For example the vehicle control system may query the portable device to determine if the portable device includes a vehicle mode feature or if a vehicle mode has been defined for the portable device that is connected. In response to the command the portable device may enter a vehicle mode and send a confirmation message to the vehicle control system. The vehicle control system may be configured to receive a confirmation from the portable device that the portable device is operating in vehicle mode step . The receipt of confirmation information may trigger any number of activities including for example display reproduction activities. According to an embodiment wherein the vehicle control system and the portable device utilize the vehicle mode for display reproduction activities the vehicle control system may begin receiving simplified images relative to those shown on the portable device during a normal mode from the portable device step . The received images may be displayed on one or more vehicle displays step . During or prior to entering vehicle mode the vehicle control system may be configured to determine a feature set of a portable device capable of suppression step . For example a portable device may include a gaming feature or a text messaging feature. These features may be suppressed during vehicle mode for any number of reasons. The portable device may have knowledge that these features may be suppressed e.g. via a stored table or database and may transmit relevant data to the vehicle control system upon request. Based on the suppressible feature information the vehicle control system may send a command to the portable device to suppress a feature of the portable device step . According to various exemplary embodiments a command to enter vehicle mode or a specific vehicle operational mode e.g. driving at highway speeds driving in unsafe conditions driving in slippery conditions driving in the dark parked or another driving mode of operation may cause a portable device to suppress one or more number of features e.g. voice feature restrictions may be selectively or automatically via vehicle control system determination lifted step . According to an exemplary embodiment the command provided to the portable electronic device from the vehicle control system includes a command to disable one or more of a local display of the portable electronic device a text messaging capability of the portable electronic device an e mail capability of the portable electronic device a web browsing capability and a media application e.g. a photo application a music application a video application a gaming application etc. .

According to yet other exemplary embodiments a processing circuit of the vehicle control system may further be configured to cause a vehicle audio system or a vehicle display system to prompt the user for whether a feature corresponding to the disabled portable electronic device feature should be enabled or replicated by the control system. The vehicle control system processing circuit may be configured to enable or replicate the feature based on received user input. Any vehicle control system component or subsystem may be used to enable or replicate the feature by the vehicle control system. For example a vehicle display may be used to replicate a disabled portable electronic device display or a vehicle media player may be used to replicate a portable electronic device media player in some embodiments using media from the portable electronic device for playback via the vehicle audio system . If a text messaging capability is disabled on the portable electronic device based on a command received from the vehicle control system the vehicle control system can prompt the user for whether the vehicle control system should enable a text messaging application of the vehicle control system e.g. using voice typing steering wheel controls or other vehicle user interface elements to enter the messages and in some embodiments using the portable electronic device to transmit the text messages to a remote source or to receive text messages for display on a vehicle display or for playback via a vehicle audio system. According to an exemplary embodiment the vehicle control system and or a processing circuit thereof may be configured to send a feature disabling command to the portable electronic device based on information such as a speed of the vehicle accelerometer information compass information global positioning system information and or vehicle error codes from an engine control unit.

During vehicle mode normal mode or other switching activities a vehicle control system may be configured with situational awareness logic for switching modes or for conducting another portable device vehicle control system activity without direct user input. Referring to vehicle control system is shown. Vehicle control system could use any number of logic processes to determine that the vehicle is in motion in drive or if another vehicular operational and or situational states e.g. traveling at a certain speed encountering an emergency situation whether the airbags were released etc. . Through a connection to vehicle control system portable device could receive an indication that the vehicle is in a park mode drive mode or otherwise. Portable device could then after receiving the situational signal change modes and or change operational parameters. Vehicle control system could also communicate information to the portable electronic device that causes the portable electronic device to dial 911 or another emergency number send a text message reporting the emergency send detailed data to a remote server regarding the emergency e.g. vehicle location from a GPS system the condition of the vehicle dead reckoning information etc. . A situational state or signal may be effected by any one or more of a user interface a vehicle subsystem e.g. an accelerometer etc. directly coupled to vehicle control system a vehicle subsystem coupled to control system via a vehicle data bus or otherwise. An indication of situation may be provided to vehicle display vehicle audio system and or via a portable device display. Vehicle subsystems may include an engine controller a wheel speed sensor a transmission a GPS receiver a compass a light sensor a rain sensor a seating sensor an occupancy sensor an oxygen sensor an impact sensor a speed sensor an emergency system an air bag system a gyroscope a breathalyzer an accelerometer an airbag sensor an anti lock brake sensor a temperature sensor a navigational system or other suitable vehicle systems that may indicate a vehicle state e.g. whether in drive the speed of the vehicle whether the vehicle has crashed whether the vehicle has experienced an emergency condition whether the vehicle is driving on a highway whether the vehicle has cruise control engaged etc. . The information e.g. vehicle status information communicated to the vehicle from vehicle subsystems can be received at an interface communicably coupling the subsystem to the vehicle control system and the vehicle control system e.g. a processing circuit and a communications interface coupled thereto may be configured to communicate the vehicle status information to a portable electronic device brought into the vehicle and or to a remote source e.g. via the portable electronic device or otherwise . According to some exemplary embodiments vehicle status information may be formatted to be transmitted to a remote source from the portable electronic device or may be transmitted to the portable electronic device with data for transmitting e.g. a URL an IP address or another remote source identifier etc. the vehicle status information to the remote source from the portable electronic device.

Referring to a flow chart of a process for providing situational awareness based activities in a vehicle is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process is shown to include receiving a signal from a vehicle subsystem step . The process may include receiving one or more signals from multiple vehicle subsystems. Based on the signals and or other indicators or logic the system may be configured to make a situational determination step e.g. whether an emergency has occurred whether the vehicle is traveling too fast for texting to occur etc. . According to an exemplary embodiment the vehicle control system determines whether the vehicle is parked or not step . If the vehicle is parked the control system and or the portable device may retrieve operational parameters associated with parking step . The retrieved operational parameters may include a command or setting to effect the allowance of user interface activities not available when the vehicle is moving step . If the vehicle is not parked the vehicle control system and or the portable device may retrieve operational parameters associated with driving step . If the vehicle is not parked the vehicle control system and or the portable device may effect the restriction of user interface activities based on retrieved operational parameters or otherwise step . A not parked determination may cause the portable to switch to one or more vehicle operational modes from a normal mode of operation. A determination that the vehicle is not parked may further change a default user interface control set to a control set configured to facilitate hands free control and or operation of the vehicle control system and or the portable device step .

Referring now to a flow chart of a process for inheriting a feature e.g. processing feature of a portable device is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process may include receiving a signal indicating the portable device is connected wirelessly or wired or otherwise ready for functional communication step . A vehicle control system may send a request to the connected portable device to check for compatibility with a feature inheriting activity step . After the vehicle control system receives a response from the portable device step the control system may be configured to make a compatibility determination step . The compatibility determination may affect which features the vehicle attempts to inherit from the portable device. The vehicle control system may then request feature set information from the portable device step . The feature set information may include one or more feature tables text files listing available features device type or class identifiers or otherwise. The vehicle control system may be configured to receive and interpret the feature set information step and to map a portable device feature to a vehicle user interface element step . For example if the portable device includes a one touch dialing feature a return call button a list N calls list a dead reckoning feature an emergency calling feature or another desirable feature the vehicle control system may map a routine or command for sending to the portable device to receiving a signal from a programmable button e.g. on the steering wheel or a programmable touch screen element.

Referring now to a flow chart of a process of a vehicle control system activity based on the programmed mapped user interface element of step of process of is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process includes receiving a signal from a mapped user interface element e.g. receiving a signal that a programmable button on the steering wheel has been pressed step . In response to the signal the vehicle control system may retrieve or otherwise determine the appropriate command or control signal step for sending to the portable device step . The command or control signal may be configured to trigger or request the execution of the desired portable device function feature. The vehicle control system may receive a confirmation signal from the portable device in response to the command step .

Referring now to a flow chart of a process for configuring a vehicle control system to inherit a multiple command feature from a portable device is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. A multiple command feature may be a target user interface feature that is desired by the user. For example a vehicle occupant may desire to display a recently called list on the vehicle display but the display of the recently called list may require two commands at the portable device e.g. a phone menu must be accessed followed by the selection of an item on the phone menu . The vehicle control system may request feature set information from the portable device step and receive and interpret the information step . The feature set information received may indicate that the target user interface feature is available or not available on the portable device via multiple activities or a single command step . If so the user interface feature may be mapped to a command step . The vehicle control system may parse or otherwise interpret the feature information. If the target user interface feature is only available on the device via multiple commands step the in vehicle control system may be configured to build or retrieve from memory a macro e.g. script table to be parsed text file to be parsed etc. based on any number of processes and or the feature set information from the portable device step . A vehicle user interface feature may then be mapped to the macro step . If the target user interface feature is not available via a single command or multiple commands a failure to set a target user interface may be indicated to a user step .

Referring now to a flow chart of a process for a vehicle control system using the multiple command feature of process of is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process includes receiving a signal from a UI feature mapped to a macro step parsing or executing the macro and sending multiple commands to a portable device based on the macro step . The vehicle control system may wait some period of time for a response from the portable device e.g. prior to trying again or timing out step . According to an exemplary embodiment the vehicle control system will wait a period of time that it expects the portable device to respond within and then begin reproducing the display of the portable device step . This activity may help to provide a seamless transition from vehicle button press to the display of information relating to the button press. If information is sent to the vehicle control system based on the macro the vehicle control system may send an audio signal to the vehicle audio system and or a display signal to the vehicle display system step .

Referring now to a flow chart of a process for providing a voice typing function in a vehicle is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Voice information could be spoken and understood by the vehicle control system and communicated to the portable electronic device via a wired or wireless communication connection. The vehicle control system may include an interface coupled to an audio input device mounted to the vehicle interior for receiving the voice information according to an exemplary embodiment. Voice information may be single words single phrases sequences of spoken words sequences of utterances and or single letters numbers symbols e.g. pound star dot etc. etc. According to an exemplary embodiment the voice information may relate to a voice command. Process may be executed by a speech recognition module e.g. speech recognition device of the vehicle control system according to an exemplary embodiment.

A dictation engine could be provided in or coupled to the vehicle control system. Results from the dictation engine may be sent to the portable electronic device whenever text may be entered and or is expected by the portable electronic device. For example if the portable electronic device is configured for web browsing and the user seeks to enter text into a text field on a browser screen the dictation engine may be used to recognize spoken words to generate text that should be entered in the text field. Once a complete unit of text is recognized the text may be forwarded to the portable electronic device for entry into the text field.

The text provided to the portable electronic device may be formatted by the processing circuit of the vehicle control system according to an exemplary embodiment. The text may be formatted such that the text characters may be entered into a text field displayed on the portable electronic device or such that the portable electronic device provides the text characters to a text messaging application running on the device. According to various exemplary embodiments the format may be at least one of a WAP format a WXML format an HTML format an XHTML format and an XML format.

Process includes receiving a command to begin voice typing step . Process further include receiving a vocal utterance or other voice information at an interface e.g. a microphone or other interface coupled to an audio input device of the control system step . One or more characters or other units of speech may be detected by the control system from the received utterance or a signal representing the utterance step . The control system may be configured to display the recognized character or unit of speech on a display of the vehicle step . If the control system is receiving a string of text or other units of speech the control system may be configured to enlarge a character or other unit of speech as the character is detected step . Enlarging a character may include magnifying the character and or increasing the size of the character for display relative to adjacent characters. After recognition a detected character may be stored in a memory device step . The control system may delay for some period of time step before reducing the size of the character or otherwise displaying the detected character at a reduced size step . The control system may then move the character on the screen or move a cursor for displaying the next character received step . While character by character enlargement or magnification may be provided an entire word or phrase may be enlarged or highlighted e.g. bolded underlined etc. if complete step . Process may further include displaying a keyboard image on a vehicle display and highlighting images on the keyboard image. Process may further include communicating the text characters to the portable electronic device in a format that causes the portable electronic device to provide the text characters to an application running on the portable electronic device e.g. a text messaging application a calendaring application a mobile commerce application a web browsing application a gaming application a navigation application an e mail application a notes application a to do list application and a media application such a music movies or photo application etc. .

Referring more specifically to step of process according to an exemplary embodiment the vehicle control system may include an interface for providing display information to an electronic display device e.g. output display mounted to the vehicle interior. The processing circuit of the vehicle control system is configured to enter a voice typing mode operation in process and is configured to display text characters as shown in step . According to an exemplary embodiment during step a recently converted text may be magnified i.e. a recently converted text character may be magnified or larger compared to other previous converted text characters already displayed in the electronic display device.

Referring now to systems and processes for providing improved navigational features in a vehicle using a portable electronic device are shown according to various exemplary embodiments. Some functionalities of a portable device may utilize location coordinates or other location information. Some portable devices may include location coordinate electronics. Vehicle GPS receiver and or vehicle subsystem data e.g. sensor data compass data received at the vehicle control system from subsystems e.g. via data bus may be used to calculate a more precise location than the location processed by portable device . Processing system of vehicle may be configured to use transceiver to communicate location data to portable device via a wired or wireless connection. Furthermore commands or information pertaining to the vehicle s operational and or situational modes could be communicated to portable device .

Processing system may be used to receive the information from receiver compass system and other vehicle subsystems via an input such as data bus . Processing system may use the information e.g. subsystem information position information to calculate a precise vehicle location relative to the previously calculated or received position information. Processing system may further utilize locationing information received from portable device in the calculations.

Referring now to flow chart a process for a vehicle control system providing improved navigation activity is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process includes receiving location information via the vehicle GPS receiver step . Location information may also be received via portable electronic device and or a GPS receiver operatively coupled e.g. via USB to the vehicle control system. The vehicle control system may receive vehicle sensor data directly from a vehicle sensor step via a vehicle compass system step via a vehicle data bus step or otherwise. Other vehicle subsystems e.g. cruise control system engine ECU transmission etc. may send data to the vehicle control system. An improved location determination may also be based on receiving and or processing vehicle operational and or situational modes step . For example improved location determination logic may use the fact that a cruise control mode is set at a highway speed to help estimate the precise location of the vehicle in the near future. Process further includes any number of logical steps and or considerations to provide improved updated location information e.g. dead reckoning step . The updated location information may be sent to portable device and used for display sent to a vehicle display system for display sent to a vehicle navigation system for further processing and or display or otherwise step .

Referring also to a flow chart of a process for portable device is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process for portable device may operate in conjunction with process for a vehicle control system or otherwise. Process includes utilizing portable device navigation elements step . Step may include receiving updated location information from vehicle and supplementing the portable device s navigational activity based on the updated location information. Portable device may at some point detect a disconnect with the vehicle control system a separation from the location information provided by the vehicle control system and or otherwise detect an on foot mode of operation e.g. detect that portable device has left the vehicle step . Once this detection has been made portable device may discontinue use and or reliance on location information from the vehicle. Portable device may switch from receiving location information from vehicle to using location information received via the portable device s GPS receiver step .

According to an exemplary embodiment portable electronic device may be configured to transmit the position information to another remote source e.g. an emergency response service a concierge service depending on the situational mode information of the vehicle control system e.g. whether an emergency has occurred . According to another exemplary embodiment the vehicle control system may be configured to provide portable device with the position information including data for transmitting the position information to another remote device.

Referring now to a flow chart of a process for utilizing two communication connections to provide for voice and or data communications is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process includes establishing a first communication connection step and conducting a first communication task step . Process may include measuring the speed and or interference of a first communication connection step . Process may further include measuring other channels and or the strength of signals from alternative remote sources step . Process may further include estimating a best communications connection based on the measured information or other metric relating to the first communication connection or a potential communication connection step . Process further includes a determination or query regarding whether the present connection is estimated to be the best step . Process yet further includes determining whether an alternative connection is significantly better than the present connection step . If the present connection is estimated to be the best or if the alternative connection is not significantly better than the present connection the communication system may continue operating via the first communication connection and conducting communication tasks and return to step . If an alternative connection is significantly better than the present connection the control system may establish a second communication connection step . The system may then wait for idle or low communication bandwidth on the first communication connection step prior to switching to a second communication connection for data and or voice communications step . The system may then terminate the first communication connection step . A process of the system may then define the second communication connection as the first communication connection and proceed with conducting communication tasks step .

Referring now to a flow chart of a process for generating a text message to trigger an update is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process includes detecting a device connection step . Once a connection is detected the system may query a portable device for a communication capability or feature e.g. display reproduction capabilities voice recognition capabilities navigation capabilities hands free communication capabilities text messaging capabilities e mailing capabilities Internet capabilities mobile commerce capabilities media capabilities macro capabilities feature replication capabilities dead reckoning capabilities emergency capabilities processing capabilities etc. step . The system may then receive a response from the device step and the system may determine whether the portable device includes the capability or feature step . If the portable electronic device includes the capability or feature the control system may use the capability or feature step . The vehicle control system may also check for permission to push an update or a new software element to the device step . If permission is available the control system may push or otherwise send e.g. via a request followed by a transmission a software update to the portable device step . If permission is not available or if further confirmation is desirable the vehicle control system may send a text message e.g. SMS message to the portable device the text message representing or otherwise configured to request a software update step . The control system may then wait for a response from the device indicating permission or otherwise step prior to sending or pushing the software update to the device step . The software sent or pushed to the portable device may include application software navigation software codec software device drivers operating system updates communication system updates add on modules or otherwise. According to an exemplary embodiment the vehicle control system and or the portable electronic device can trigger updates using other than text messaging information e.g. via a formatted request to an update application running on the portable electronic device . Further in step the decision step as to whether the portable device includes the capability or feature may include a check to determine whether the portable electronic device includes the latest version of the software for conducting or supporting the capability or feature. If the portable electronic device does not include the latest version of the software for conducting or supporting the capability or feature the vehicle control system can determine that it should update the portable electronic device with the latest version of the software. According to various exemplary embodiments in addition to or instead of updating the portable electronic device processing circuitry of the vehicle control system may be configured to determine whether an update is available for the processing circuitry and or for another vehicle subsystem. The vehicle control system processing circuitry may be configured to request the update from a remote source via the portable electronic device to receive the update via an interface communicably coupling the portable electronic device and the vehicle control system e.g. a wired interface a wireless interface and to process or install the update.

Referring now to a flow chart of a portable electronic device process for receiving a text message e.g. the text message generated by process of to trigger an update of the portable electronic device is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process includes receiving a text message from the vehicle step . Process further includes parsing the text message step . The parsed information may include for example a name number and message field. The fields may be used to instruct the portable device which number to dial or where to send confirmation e.g e mail address Bluetooth identifier IP address network address etc. . The process further includes responding to the text message based on the parsed information step . The response may include a request to send an update identifying information and or a confirmation to send. The portable device may then wait to receive the software update step receive the software update step install the software update step and or send an additional confirmation message to the vehicle step .

Referring now to a block diagram of a system for providing remote voice processing is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Vehicle control system is shown to include communication device and processing system as described in the disclosure. Processing system includes a voice typing engine a dictation engine a first phoneme extractor and a second phoneme extractor . According to various exemplary embodiments different parts of speech may be extracted by the extractors of vehicle control system . Vehicle control system may generally be configured to utilize voice typing engine dictation engine and or phoneme extractors until vehicle control system determines that a remote processing system should assist or handle the extraction. First phoneme extractor may be a fast phoneme extractor configured for reduced complexity but relatively high speed. Second phoneme extractor may be a slow phoneme extractor configured for increased accuracy and extraction capability but reduced speed.

Referring also to a flow chart of a process for off board part of speech extraction and or voice recognition is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Process is shown to include the step of receiving a signal representing a vocal utterance e.g. voice information step . Process is further shown to include attempting to extract a unit of speech from the next or first signal part e.g. a microphone signal a microphone signal part step . If vehicle control system experiences difficulty with the extraction step the signal part may be sent to a wireless service remote source for extraction step . After wireless service remote source has completed the extraction an extracted unit of speech may be received from wireless service remote source step . If vehicle control system determines that the signal has been fully extracted step system may then determine whether the extraction is a recognized command step . If the extraction is not a recognized command the system may prompt the user for a repeat step . If the extraction is a recognized command system may send the extracted signal to wireless service remote source for further recognition or processing step . System may confirm a vocal utterance once a word phrase signal part sentence or otherwise has been extracted step . Alternatively or additionally system may confirm a vocal utterance based on brief processing or no processing allowing the user to hear how system detected the user s utterance. Remote processing may be completed via the portable device in the car a remote processing station attached to the wireless service via the portable device or otherwise. Further even if a control system is not experiencing difficulty with extraction some voice typing dictation or extraction tasks may be sent to a portable device or other remote processing station.

Referring to various vehicle and vehicle control system embodiments are illustrated that may be used with various of the systems and methods of the present disclosure.

Referring to an exemplary control for mounting to a vehicle interior element or for integrating with a vehicle interior element e.g. a steering wheel is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. In the embodiment of he control is shown to be a directional pad allowing the user to press an up left right and down portion of the pad. The control may also be configured for pressing in on the center of the pad. At the corners of directional pad might be provided one or more programmable buttons . Buttons may have default settings. For example the left arrow in the upper left corner may correspond to a back command a phone button may correspond to a phone or hands free feature or menu a menu button may correspond to a home or root menu activity and a contacts button may trigger a contacts menu or the display of contacts. It should be noted that button elements may be programmed to features or macros of a connected portable device. If a new portable electronic device is brought into the vehicle and connected the vehicle control system may be configured to automatically map one or more elements of control pad to portable device commands features or macros. Profile information stored in a memory device of the vehicle control system may be accessed for each connected portable electronic device the profile information used by the vehicle control system to program one or more control elements.

Referring now to a block diagram of a vehicle communications system is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Government laws have been enacted to restrict use of handsets in vehicles. One method to assist adherence to these rules would be to install systems components within the vehicle that interfere with and or otherwise degrade the performance of certain handset functions to an extent that effectively renders them unstable. Some vehicles make handset use and communications difficult from within the interior of the vehicle. This may be due to degradation of the wireless signals to and from the handset resulting from vehicle structural materials and or materials embedded in the vehicle glass that interfere with and or otherwise negatively impact the signal characteristics. One or more isolation bins where a portable device may be placed within vehicle could be designed with equipment to avoid signal paths subject to this type of signal degradation. These bins could have the additional feature to restrict wireless signals that would otherwise contribute to signal degradation from reaching the handset e.g. bin could be shielded . Bin may be located at a vehicle dash location or otherwise. Bin may totally enclose portable device e.g. may be closed or bin may be permanently open on one or more sides. Isolation bin may further include be located adjacent a power supply unit PSU a wired interface and or a wireless interface . PSU may provide a power source for isolation bin and interfaces may be configured to connect to portable electronic device . Isolation bin may further include an interface for coupling to an active passive or hybrid antenna module mounted to the vehicle. Isolation bin may be coupled to vehicle control system and portable device may communicate with vehicle control system via the operative coupling between bin and vehicle control system . Vehicle having bin may also include a jamming device configured to jam the signal of one or more unauthorized mobile devices . Antenna module may facilitate improved communications between portable device and a wireless service remote source .

Referring to various embodiments for a vehicle control system connecting via a USB interface to various remote sources are shown.

Referring now to a detailed block diagram of vehicle control system is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Generally a USB connector or interface is provided within vehicle . The USB interface may be embedded in vehicle control system interface or may be coupled to vehicle control system interface . Any past present or future USB protocol specification and or hardware standard may be utilized e.g. USB 2.0 USB micro connectors USB mini connectors etc. . USB interface may facilitate operative connection of a mobile phone a compass system a GPS receiver another navigation device an access controller e.g. a HomeLink product sold by Johnson Controls Inc. a PDA a media player a satellite radio a USB microphone a wireless USB device or another portable device that may be brought into vehicle and configured to communicate via USB connection either via USB interfaces or via a wireless USB transceiver embedded in vehicle control system . Vehicle control system may use the USB interface and or features for charging command and control and or data transfer. The USB specification includes standards for device classes. Vehicle control system could be configured to support all USB specification device classes. Vehicle control system could be classified as an embedded host a host a client or otherwise. A handset to vehicle class might be provided and utilized by vehicle control system . Also a vehicle class might be provided and utilized by a portable device. A vehicle or handset to vehicle class might include a number of attributes for facilitating vehicle control system to portable device communications. For example a button configuration attribute may be defined with possible values including characteristics of the button configuration available on vehicle and or the portable device e.g. the number of buttons the type d pad type button number etc. . A display reproduction attribute may be defined with possible values including an indication as to whether vehicle or the portable device is compatible with display reproduction activities e.g. full display partial display not capable etc. . Similarly a display reproduction resolution attribute and a display reproduction area attribute could be defined in vehicle or handset to vehicle USB device classes so that communicating devices are may be aware of the capabilities and parameters of the connected system via some standard mechanism. A vehicle voice recognition capability attribute may also be defined. The voice recognition VR capability attribute may include possible values such as Full VR Capable Partial VR Capable Phoneme Extraction Capable Number Recognition Capable etc. It should be noted that one or more binary hexadecimal or otherwise formatted code may represent one or more of the possible values for any of the aforementioned attributes.

Referring further to a class database and or class driver set included on control system may include information and or drivers relating to the handset to vehicle class and or handset to vehicle driver . Custom drivers may alternatively or additionally be provided for a connected USB device. A vehicle class communication protocol stack may be provided on the vehicle. Stack may include activities that facilitate car system specific communications and or display reproduction communications. Control system may further include a charging module a command and control module and a data transfer module . Modules may include hardware and or software elements configured to facilitate charging command and control and or data transfer features relating to USB devices. A wireless USB host and wireless USB transceiver may be provided with or instead of a wired USB interface . Control system may include a USB host controller a root hub element USB system software and or any other processing element memory drivers hardware circuitry and or software circuitry configured to facilitate operative vehicle to portable device communications via a USB connection.

Referring now to vehicle control system having USB interface is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. USB interface is shown coupled to a USB interface of portable device . Vehicle control system may include a vehicle USB class identifier for communicating to portable device . Portable device is shown to include a vehicle class device driver and a host controller . Advantageously this may allow vehicle control system and or portable device to communicate according to known attributes common device drivers common communication protocols and the like. For example a vehicle class device may include a number of attributes and methods specific to vehicle data or vehicle features.

Referring now to a block diagram of vehicle control system is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. Vehicle control system is shown coupled to a modem device via a USB connection e.g. via USB interfaces . Vehicle control system may be configured to communicate with a wireless service and or a remote source via communications module of USB modem . Vehicle control system is shown to include a browser module modem application software a modem device driver and a communication stack compatible with modem . Vehicle control system may use USB modem and browser module for web browsing activities or other communications activities. Advantageously USB modem may be provided for different and or upgraded communications without changing mobile phones or changing an embedded phone of the vehicle. USB modem may be any USB modem of the past present or future including for example a GSM modem a CDMA modem a 3G modem a GPRS modem a UMTS modem an HSDPA modem etc.

Referring now to vehicle control system for communicating with a wireless service or a remote source via a USB connected wireless communication device is shown according to an exemplary embodiment. According to an exemplary embodiment wireless communication device is a WiFi device or a WiMax device. Control system is shown to include a connection point e.g. WiFi hot spot database . Connection point database may be used to store information regarding the location of areas within which or near which wireless communication device is estimated to be able to operatively connect to a network. GPS system may use database to display potential areas for connectivity to a user. GPS system may be used to calculate a route to the potential area for connectivity based on connection point database . A network detection application may alternatively or additionally be provided to control system . Network detection application may be configured to use wireless communication device to detect available networks regardless of whether wireless communication device is already connected to another network.

Referring still to control system includes a connection manager according to an exemplary embodiment. Connection manager may be a logic module e.g. hardware circuitry configured to execute computer code configured to provide an operative communication connection whenever possible from a vehicle to a wireless service and or remote source. Connection manager may be configured to switch between communicating using wireless communication device and communicating using on a second communication device embedded or otherwise coupled to control system . A communication device switching module may be used to switch from a first communication device to a second communication device during voice and or data communications without revealing the switch to the user. Alternatively the switch may be revealed to the user but occurs automatically so that the user need not manually command control system to connect or reconnect via the one or more devices. A user interface module for the configuration of wireless communication device may be provided in control system . User interface module may present the user with fields options or available networks for configuring wireless communication device . Control system further includes a security module for configuration of wireless communication device security features. Security module may be configured to negotiate encryption features to conduct encryption tasks decryption tasks authentication tasks password tasks or otherwise. Device driver may be configured to allow higher level software to interact with the hardware with the hardware of for example communication device USB interface and or wireless communications device . Browser module may be configured to provide a user of the vehicle control with web browser functionality for viewing Internet sites Intranet sites locally stored HTTP pages or otherwise.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the figures and described herein are presently preferred it should be understood that the embodiments are offered by way of example only. Accordingly the present application is not limited to a particular embodiment but extends to various modifications that nevertheless fall within the scope of the appended claims.

The present disclosure contemplates methods systems and program products on any machine readable media for accomplishing various operations. The embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented using existing computer processors or by a special purpose computer processor for an appropriate system incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired system.

The construction and arrangement of the systems and methods as shown in the various exemplary embodiments are illustrative only. Although only a few embodiments have been described in detail in this disclosure many modifications are possible e.g. variations in sizes dimensions structures shapes and proportions of the various elements values of parameters mounting arrangements use of materials colors orientations etc. . For example the position of elements may be reversed or otherwise varied and the nature or number of discrete elements or positions may be altered or varied. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure. The order or sequence of any process or method steps may be varied or re sequenced according to alternative embodiments. Other substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure include program products comprising machine readable media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable media can comprise RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a machine the machine properly views the connection as a machine readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a machine readable medium. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Although the figures may show a specific order of method steps the order of the steps may differ from what is depicted. Also two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Such variation will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. All such variations are within the scope of the disclosure. Likewise software implementations could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various connection steps processing steps comparison steps and decision steps.

