---

title: Continuous biomolecule separation in a nanofilter
abstract: This invention provides a method and an apparatus for quickly continuously fractionating biomolecules, such as DNAs, proteins and carbohydrates by taking advantage of differential bidirectional transport of biomolecules with varying physico-chemical characteristics, for example size, charge, hydrophobicity, or combinations thereof, through periodic arrays of microfabricated nanofilters. The passage of biomolecules through the nanofilter is a function of both steric and electrostatic interactions between charged macromolecules and charged nanofilter walls, Continuous-flow separation through the devices of this invention are applicable for molecules varying in terms of any molecular properties (e.g., size, charge density or hydrophobicity) that can lead to differential transport across the nanofilters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08783466&OS=08783466&RS=08783466
owner: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
number: 08783466
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110113
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 543 252 filed on Oct. 5 2006 that claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 723 926 filed on Oct. 6 2005 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. CTS0347348 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention is directed to sorting devices comprising nanoseparation matrices an apparatus comprising the same and methods of use thereof for high throughput molecular separations.

In systems biology and in the application of biomarker detection and biosensing the separation and identification of many proteins small molecules and carbohydrates from a cell or from complex biological samples is necessary. Often one needs to profile the concentrations of many different biomarkers cytokines and other signaling molecules contained in serum to determine or diagnose the current progress of a disease. However these biomarkers typically smaller than 30 kD are present at relatively low concentrations pM nM while majority proteins albumin and globulins typically larger than 40 kD are present at much higher concentrations M mM which critically limits the detection of the smaller biomarkers.

Pre fractionation and separation could eliminate background molecules to enhance the detection ability of the signaling molecules but none of the conventional separation techniques is appropriate for this task. Gel electrophoresis is routinely used for separating proteins based on size but they are generally slow and hard to automate and require bulky equipment. Capillary Electrophoresis CE with a liquid sieving matrix is currently the fastest size based separation technique for protein but polymeric sieving matrix can interfere with downstream separation and detection processes which limits the automation of the entire sample preparation process. While microfluidic biomolecule separation systems hold much promise for miniaturizing and automating biomolecule analysis processes most adopt the same gel sieve material in their separation with all inherent limitations of the conventional techniques.

Micro nanofluidic molecular sieving structures fabricated with semiconductor technology have been used to separate biomolecules as well with much greater speed than their conventional counterparts though to date the systems have only successfully been used for large biomolecule separation such as viral DNA based on size.

Thus a high throughput biomolecular sorter which can be automated and can be readily incorporated into downstream analysis modules is desirable yet is currently not readily accomplished.

According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the horizontal gaps are from about 10 5000 nm and in another embodiment the vertical gaps are from about 0.1 10 m. In another embodiment the obstacles in the rows are laterally shifted with respect to each row.

In one embodiment the gaps form channels for fluid conductance when fluid is introduced in said sorter. In another embodiment microfluidic channels are in fluid communication with the channels. In one embodiment channels comprise sample loading ports and in another embodiment the channels comprise sample collection ports.

In another embodiment the microfluidic channels are in fluid communication with a reservoir. In one embodiment voltage is applied to said reservoir which in one embodiment is less than 1000 V. In another embodiment pressure is applied to said reservoir.

In one embodiment the electrostatic force field or hydrodynamic force field is applied in pulse field operation mode or in another embodiment in continuous field operation mode.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of sorting a fluid mixture comprising a plurality of biopolymers which vary in terms of the physico chemical characteristics of each of said plurality of biopolymers said method comprising the steps of 

According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the fluid mixture comprises a cell lysate or tissue homogenate or in another embodiment the fluid mixture comprises a large sample of deoxyribonucleic acids DNA proteins or a combination thereof. In another embodiment the fluid mixture comprises a buffered solution. In another embodiment the method further comprises the step of sorting a sample of said mixture two or more times wherein the pH or ionic strength of said buffered solution is varied at the time of said sorting. In another embodiment the physico chemical characteristics comprise size charge hydrophobicity hydrophilicity or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the electrostatic force field parallel in direction to the rows provides an electroosmotic driving force for the fluid. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the fluid has an ionic strength of about 1 300 mM.

In one embodiment the sorting is size based. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment greater separation of the biopolymers is achieved with increasing voltage. In one embodiment the voltage applied is at least 60V or in another embodiment at least 70V or in another embodiment at least 100V or in another embodiment at least 150V.

In one embodiment the fluid has an ionic strength of at least 100 mM. In one embodiment the fluid has an ionic strength of at least 125 mM or in another embodiment at least 150 mM.

In one embodiment the sorting is charge based. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment greater resolution of said biopolymers is achieved when the applied voltage is greater than 40 V.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

In one embodiment of this invention there is provided a unique continuous flow separation of small biomolecules such as native proteins protein complexes and double stranded DNA molecules dsDNA in a microfabricated chip based on differential bidirectional transport of biomolecules of different sizes through periodic arrays of microfabricated nanofilters which in one embodiment comprises the use of a microfabricated molecular sieving chip that can size fractionate small biomolecules without using gel sieving matrices with a separation efficiency comparable to current means such as capillary gel electrophoresis.

In one embodiment the substrate and or other components of the sorter can be made from a wide variety of materials including but not limited to silicon silicon dioxide silicon nitride glass and fused silica gallium arsenide indium phosphide III V materials PDMS silicone rubber aluminum ceramics polyimide quartz plastics resins and polymers including polymethylmethacrylate acrylics polyethylene polyethylene terepthalate polycarbonate polystyrene and other styrene copolymers polypropylene polytetrafluoroethylene superalloys zircaloy steel gold silver copper tungsten molybdeumn tantalum KOVAR KEVLAR KAPTON MYLAR teflon brass sapphire etc. or a combination thereof. High quality glasses such as high melting borosilicate or fused silicas may be used in some embodiments for their UV transmission properties when any of the sample manipulation and or detection steps require light based technologies. In addition as outlined herein portions of the internal and or external surfaces of the device may be coated with a variety of coatings as needed to facilitate the manipulation or detection technique performed.

In one embodiment the obstacles comprise the same materials as the substrate or in another embodiment are comprised of a suitable material which prevents adhesion to the obstacles. In one embodiment the channels formed via the positioning of the obstacles may similarly comprise the same materials or may otherwise be treated as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art to facilitate sorting.

In one embodiment the invention provides for a microchip comprising the biomolecular sorter or sorters of this invention. In one embodiment the microchip may be made of a wide variety of materials and can be configured in a large number of ways as described and exemplified herein in some embodiments and other embodiments will be apparent to one of skill in the art. The composition of the substrate will depend on a variety of factors including the techniques used to create the device the use of the device the composition of the sample the molecules to be sorted the type of analysis conducted following molecular sorting the size of internal structures the presence or absence of electronic components and the technique used to move fluid etc. In some embodiments the devices of the invention will be sterilizable as well in some embodiments this is not required. In some embodiments the devices are disposable or in another embodiment re usable.

Microfluidic chips used in the methods and devices of this invention may be fabricated using a variety of techniques including but not limited to hot embossing such as described in H. Becker et al. Sensors and Materials 11 297 1999 hereby incorporated by reference molding of elastomers such as described in D.C. Duffy et. al. Anal. Chem. 70 4974 1998 hereby incorporated by reference injection molding LIGA soft lithography silicon fabrication and related thin film processing techniques as known in the art photolithography and reactive ion etching techniques as exemplified herein. In one embodiment glass etching and diffusion bonding of fused silica substrates may be used to prepare microfluidic chips.

The arrangement of the obstacles in the sorter forms an array or rows and columns such that the regions between obstacles in respective rows and columns are continuous forming channels. For example as described in each row which comprises a thick region 1 10 forming a channel for conveying fluid comprising molecules to be sorted as described herein. The thin regions 1 20 provide steric hindrance such that larger molecules do not pass readily through these regions. In one embodiment the regions are aligned such that they form parallel columns which serve as channels for conveying fluid comprising molecules to be sorted which are small enough in size to pass through the regions. In one embodiment the regions are staggered such that they form staggered columns serving as channels as described. Molecules in turn in a size restricted manner transit through the thick and thin regions partly in a direction which is in parallel to and partly in a direction which is perpendicular to the original plane of entry in the sorter.

In one embodiment the thin regions or columns of this invention comprise nanofluidic channels which have a width ranging from about 10 5000 nm. In one embodiment the thick regions comprise microfluidic channels which have a width ranging from about 0.5 500 micron.

In one embodiment the microfluidic or nanofluidic channels used in the devices and or methods of this invention which convey fluid may be constructed from a material which renders it transparent or semitransparent in order to image the solutions being sorted or in another embodiment to ascertain the progress of the sorting etc. In some embodiments the materials further have low conductivity and high chemical resistance to buffer solutions and or mild organics. In other embodiments the material is of a machinable or moldable polymeric material and may comprise insulators ceramics metals or insulator coated metals. In other embodiments the channel may be constructed from a polymer material that is resistant to alkaline aqueous solutions and mild organics. In another embodiment the channel comprises at least one surface which is transparent or semi transparent such that in one embodiment imaging of the sorter is possible.

In one embodiment the term minimal sorting unit as described herein refers to the arrangement of obstacles on the substrate forming rows and columns as described hereinabove which in turn serve as channels for the conductance of the fluid mixture comprising the molecules to be sorted. In one embodiment of this invention the sorter may further comprise microfluidic channels in fluid communication with the minimal sorting unit. In one embodiment the latter channels are in fluid communication with a sample reservoir or in another embodiment buffer reservoir or in another embodiment inlet port or in another embodiment outlet port. According to this aspect of the invention the microfluidic channels may serve as a conduit for conveying material into and out of the minimal sorting unit.

In one embodiment a device of this invention may comprise an array comprising one or more minimal sorting units. Such arrays may be referred to herein in other embodiments as anisotropic nanofilter arrays ANAs .

In one embodiment the inlet may comprise an area of the chip in fluidic communication with one or more microfluidic channels in one embodiment and or a sample reservoir in another embodiment. Inlets and outlets may be fabricated in a wide variety of ways depending upon in one embodiment on the substrate material utilized and or in another embodiment the dimensions used. In one embodiment inlets and or outlets are formed using conventional tubing which prevents sample leakage when fluid is applied to the device under pressure. In one embodiment inlets and or outlets are formed of a material which withstands application of voltage even high voltage to the device. In one embodiment the inlet may further comprise a means of applying a constant pressure to generate pressure driven flow in the device.

The sorters of this invention may be referred to in some embodiments as a device or apparatus and will comprise at least the elements as described herein. In one embodiment the devices of this invention comprise at least one microchannel and at least one nanochannel. In one embodiment the terms nanochannel and nanofilter are used herein interchangeably and refer to a size selective construction on the sorting device as a result of the arrangement of the obstacles and construction of the device such that size dependent separation is accomplished as described. In one embodiment the device is formed using the technology of microfabrication and nanofabrication for formation of the respective channels.

Microfabrication technology or microtechnology or MEMS in one embodiment applies the tools and processes of semiconductor fabrication to the formation of for example physical structures. Microfabrication technology allows one in one embodiment to precisely design features e.g. reservoirs wells channels with dimensions in the range of 

In another embodiment NEMS or nanotechnology is used to construct the nanochannels. In one embodiment the nanochannels can be fabricated with nanoimprint lithography NIL as described in Z. N. Yu P. Deshpande W. Wu J. Wang and S. Y. Chou Appl. Phys. Lett. 77 7 927 2000 S. Y. Chou P. R. Krauss and P. J. Renstrom Appl. Phys. Lett. 67 21 3114 1995 Stephen Y. Chou Peter R. Krauss and Preston J. Renstrom Science 272 85 1996 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 772 905 hereby incorporated herein in their entirety by reference. In one embodiment the nanochannels and or microchannels can be formed by photolithography and reactive ion etching RIE techniques with nanofilter gap thickness ds as thin as 10 nm. In one embodiment the formation of the device may employ nanoimprint lithography interference lithography self assembled copolymer pattern transfer spin coating electron beam lithography focused ion beam milling wet etching plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition electron beam evaporation sputter deposition and combinations thereof. Alternatively other conventional methods can be used to form the nanochannels and or microchannels.

In one embodiment the sorter comprising nanochannels and microchannels are formed as exemplified hereinbelow in Example 1.

In one embodiment a series of reactive ion etchings are conducted after which nanochannels are patterned with standard lithography tools. In one embodiment the etchings are conducted with a particular geometry which in another embodiment determines the interface between the microchannels and or nanochannels. In one embodiment etchings which create the microchannels are performed perpendicular to the plane in which etchings for the nanofilters were created.

In another embodiment electrical insulation of the device is accomplished. In one embodiment such insulation is accomplished via thermal oxidation of the device. In another embodiment a surface of the device which in another embodiment is the bottom surface may be affixed to a substrate such as for example and in one embodiment a Pyrex wafer. In one embodiment the wafer may be affixed using anodic bonding techniques.

In one embodiment the fabrication may use a shaped sacrificial layer which is sandwiched between permanent floor and ceiling layers with the shape of the sacrificial layer defining a working gap. When the sacrificial layer is removed the working gap becomes a fluid channel having the desired configuration. This approach in one embodiment allows a precise definition of the height width and shape of interior working spaces or fluid channels in the structure of a fluidic device.

The sacrificial layer is formed on a substrate shaped by a suitable lithographic process for example and is covered by a ceiling layer. Thereafter the sacrificial layer may be removed with a wet chemical etch leaving behind empty spaces between the floor and ceiling layers which form working gaps which may be used as flow channels filters and or reservoirs for the sorting device. In such a device the vertical dimension or height of a working gap is determined by the thickness of the sacrificial layer film which is made with for example chemical vapor deposition CVD techniques and accordingly this dimension can be very small.

The channels chambers and or filters have dimensions on the order of microns in the case of the microchannels and chambers reservoirs and nanometers in the case of nanofilters nanochannels. In some embodiments structures with larger dimensions such as on the order of millimeters are used and represent embodiments of this invention. In one embodiment the width and or length of the microfluidic chamber ranges from 100 1000 m and the depth of the microfluidic chamber ranges from 0.1 100 m. In one embodiment the width of the microchannel is between 0.1 1000 m or in another embodiment between 1 and 150 m or in another embodiment between 20 and 500 m or in another embodiment between 25 and 750 m or in another embodiment between 500 and 1000 m. In one embodiment the depth of the microchannel is between 0.1 50 m or in another embodiment between 0.5 and 5 m or in another embodiment between 5 and 15 m or in another embodiment between 10 and 25 m or in another embodiment between 15 and 50 m.

In another embodiment the width of the nanofilter is between 10 nm 500 m or in another embodiment between 10 nm and 15 m or in another embodiment between 20 nm and 25 m or in another embodiment between 50 nm and 40 m or in another embodiment between 50 nm and 50 m. In another embodiment the depth of the nanochannel is between 10 1000 nanometers or in another embodiment between 20 and 50 nanometers or in another embodiment between 20 and 75 nanometers or in another embodiment between 30 and 75 nanometers or in another embodiment between 50 and 100 nanometers.

In one embodiment the microchannels which form the rows of the device and nanofilters are oriented perpendicularly with respect to each other. In one embodiment the term perpendicular or perpendicularly refers to an orientation of one channel being at a 90 angle with respect to the longitudinal axis of another channel 5 or in another embodiment at a 90 angle of 10 or in another embodiment at a 90 angle 20 .

In one embodiment the sorter of this invention may comprise a plurality of channels including a plurality of microchannels or a plurality of nanochannels or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the phrase a plurality of channels refers to more than two channels or in another embodiment more than 5 or in other embodiments more than 10 96 100 384 1 000 1 536 10 000 100 000 or 1 000 000 channels.

In one embodiment the surface of the microchannel and or nanofilter may be functionalized to reduce or enhance adsorption of species of interest to the surface of the device. In another embodiment the surface of the microchannel and or nanofilter has been functionalized to enhance or reduce the operation efficiency of the device.

In one embodiment the device is further modified to contain an active agent in the microchannel. For example and in one embodiment the microchannel is coated with an enzyme at a region wherein molecules within the mixture will separate in a size restricted manner according to the methods of this invention. According to this aspect the enzyme such as a protease may come into contact with concentrated proteins and digest them which in another embodiment allows for further sorting of the digested species. The digestion products may in another embodiment be conveyed to a peptide analysis module downstream of the sorting device. The amino acid sequences of the digestion products may be determined and assembled to generate a sequence of the polypeptide. Prior to delivery to a peptide analysis module the peptide may be conveyed to an interfacing module which in turn may perform one or more additional steps of separating concentrating and or focusing.

In another embodiment the microchannel may be coated with a label which in one embodiment is tagged in order to identify a particular protein or peptide or other molecule containing the recognized epitope which may be a means of sensitive detection of a molecule in a large mixture present at low concentration.

For example in some embodiments reagents may be incorporated in the buffers used in the methods and devices of this invention to enable chemiluminescence detection. In some embodiments the method of detecting the labeled material includes but is not limited to optical absorbance refractive index fluorescence phosphorescence chemiluminescence electrochemiluminescence electrochemical detection voltometry or conductivity. In some embodiments detection occurs using laser induced fluorescence as is known in the art.

In some embodiments the labels may include but are not limited to fluorescent lanthanide complexes including those of Europium and Terbium fluorescein fluorescamine rhodamine tetramethylrhodamine eosin erythrosin coumarin methyl coumarins pyrene Malacite green stilbene Lucifer Yellow Cascade Blue Texas Red 1 1 1 3 propanediylbis dimethylimino 3 1 propanediyl bis 4 3 methyl 2 3H benzoxazolylidene methyl tetraioide which is sold under the name YOYO 1 Cy and Alexa dyes and others described in the 9th Edition of the Molecular Probes Handbook by Richard P. Haugland hereby expressly incorporated by reference. Labels may be added to label the desired molecule prior to introduction into the sorters of this invention in some embodiments and in some embodiments the label is supplied in a microfluidic chamber. In some embodiments the labels are attached covalently as is known in the art or in other embodiments via non covalent attachment.

In some embodiments photodiodes confocal microscopes CCD cameras or photomultiplier tubes maybe used to image the labels thus incorporated and may in some embodiments comprise the apparatus of the invention representing in some embodiments a lab on a chip mechanism as described further as well hereinbelow.

In one embodiment detection is accomplished using laser induced fluorescence as known in the art. In some embodiments the apparatus may further comprise a light source detector and other optical components to direct light onto the microfluidic chamber chip and thereby collect fluorescent radiation thus emitted. The light source may comprise a laser light source such as in some embodiments a laser diode or in other embodiments a violet or a red laser diode. In other embodiments VCSELs VECSELs or diode pumped solid state lasers may be similarly used. In some embodiments a Brewster s angle laser induced fluorescence detector may used. In some embodiments one or more beam steering mirrors may be used to direct the beam to a desired location for detection.

In one embodiment the buffered solution is flowed through the chamber at a relatively constant flow rate which in one embodiment ranges from about 0.5 15 l minute. According to this aspect of the invention pressure applied to the device will be such as to accommodate a relatively constant flow rate as desired as will be understood by one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment any of various mechanisms may be employed to manipulate transport and or move fluid within the device to convey the fluid within the microfluidic chamber as well as into or out of the chamber. In some embodiments pressurized fluid flow is applied from a syringe or in another embodiment other pressure source attached to in one embodiment an inlet of a device of this invention.

In some embodiment a pressure stop is positioned between two or more channels in an apparatus of this invention such that the pressure driven flow through a first microchamber does not influence the flow through a second microchamber in some embodiments of this invention. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment separation may be affected by the pressure applied for the sorting of the molecules within the given microfluidic chamber.

Inlets outlets allow access to the chambers to which they are connected for the purpose in one embodiment of introducing or in another embodiment of removing fluids from the chambers on the microfluidic chip. In one embodiment inlets allow access to the chamber to which they are connected for the purpose of introducing fluids to the microchamber from a sample reservoir or in another embodiment from a sample stored in a conventional storage means such as a tube. In another embodiment the outlet allows access of fluid from the microfluidic chamber which has undergone pI based sorting according to the methods of this invention. According to this aspect of the invention the outlet may allow for the removal and storage of the sorted material or in another embodiment its conveyance to an analytical module which in one embodiment may be coupled thereto.

The sorting devices of this invention are so constructed that passage of biomolecules through a nanofilter is sterically hindered via an Ogston sieving process with passage being size dependent. An injected main stream of biomolecules separates into different streams based on molecular size in some embodiments as a function of the arrangement of the nanofilter arrays and applied horizontal and vertical force fields electrostatic force field or hydrodynamic force field with pulse field operation mode or continuous field operation mode .

In one embodiment the sorter comprises at least a first conduit for applying an electrostatic force field or hydrodynamic force field parallel in direction to said rows. In one embodiment the force field is applied in parallel direction to the microchannels which comprise the rows of the sorters as described. The force field may be thus formed via application of an appropriate stimulus to a reservoir as described which is in fluid communication with microfluidic channels which in turn thither convey the stimulus to the microchannels of the minimal sorting unit.

In one embodiment the microfluidic channels connecting to buffer reservoirs produce electrostatic force field or hydrodynamic force field over the minimal sorting unit by acting as electric current injectors or fluidic flow injectors depending upon the field applied.

The sorter will also comprise at least a second conduit for applying an electrostatic force field or hydrodynamic force field parallel in direction to the columns and perpendicular in direction to the rows such that the two fields as applied are perpendicularly applied with respect to each other.

As exemplified herein in the application of two fields in this case electrostatic force fields were necessary for the separation of the labeled species.

In one embodiment the electrostatic force field may be applied to the apparatus via the disposition of electrodes on a surface of the apparatus in conjunction with its their connection to a means of applying voltage wherein the electrodes are so positioned such that following application of voltage an electric field is generated which is parallel in direction to the rows comprising the microchannels of the minimal sorting unit. In another embodiment the electrodes are so positioned such that following application of voltage an electric field is generated which is perpendicular in direction to the rows comprising the microchannels of the minimal sorting unit which may also be referred to herein as a vertical force field. In some embodiments electrodes are formed on the interior or exterior surfaces of the chip and are in electrical communication with the microfluidic channels.

According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment a power supply is coupled to the electrodes which may further comprise a DC to DC converter a voltage controlled resistor and a feedback circuit to control the resistor and converter to regulate the voltage of the power supply.

In some embodiments of the present invention a power module is coupled to an external power supply. In other embodiments the power module is powered using a portable power supply such as batteries solar power wind power nuclear power and the like.

In some embodiments of the present invention the voltage delivered to the device provides a field strength of up to 3.5 10V m. In one embodiment an electric field with strength of at least 100 V m is applied or in another embodiment at least 200 V m or in another embodiment at least 300 V m.

In one embodiment the electrode metal contacts can be integrated using standard integrated circuit fabrication technology to be in contact with a reservoir or in one embodiment at least one microchannel or in another embodiment a combination thereof and oriented as such to establish a directional electric field as described. Alternating current AC direct current DC or both types of fields can be applied. The electrodes can be made of almost any metal and in one embodiment comprise thin Al Au metal layers deposited on defined line paths. In one embodiment at least one end of one electrode is in contact with buffer solution in the reservoir.

In another embodiment the sorting device may contain at least two pairs of electrodes each providing an electric field in a different direction.

In another embodiment at least one of the force fields may be a hydrodynamic force field. In one embodiment both force fields are hydrodynamic force fields or in another embodiment one force field is hydrodynamic and the other electrostatic or in another embodiment both are electrostatic.

In one embodiment a hydrodynamic force field is established via provision of a pressure driven flow which may originate in one embodiment in the reservoirs which convey fluid to the microchannels which in turn convey the fluid to the minimal sorting unity thus in fact acting as fluidic flow injectors. In one embodiment the phrases pressure driven flow refers to flow that is driven by a pressure source exerted on the conveyance of fluid through a segment of a channel external to the channel segment through which such flow is driven.

Examples of pressure sources include negative and positive pressure sources or pumps external to the channel segment in question including electrokinetic pressure pumps which in one embodiment are connected to a reservoir or microchannel of this invention which does not comprise the minimal sorting unit.

In one embodiment reference to the term liquid flow may encompass any or all of the characteristics of flow of fluid or other material through a passage conduit channel or across a surface. Such characteristics include without limitation the flow rate flow volume the conformation and accompanying dispersion profile of the flowing fluid or other material as well as other more generalized characteristics of flow e.g. laminar flow creeping flow turbulent flow etc.

In one embodiment hybrid flow may comprise pressure based relay of the liquid sample into the channel network followed by electrokinetic movement of materials or in another embodiment electrokinetic movement of the liquid followed by pressure driven flow. It is to be understood that both may be employed in the creation of a force field for either or both directions as described herein and may be used in order to affect the sorting efficiency or quality desired when sorting a mixture of molecules.

The sorters of this invention and or devices comprising the same may be used to sort a fluid mixture comprising a plurality of polymers or in some embodiments biopolymers for example peptides nucleic acids glycoproteins carbohydrates etc.

In one embodiment this invention provides a method of sorting a fluid mixture comprising a plurality of polymers varying in terms of the physico chemical characteristics of each of said plurality of biopolymers said method comprising the steps of 

In one embodiment the invention provides an apparatus for quickly continuously fractionating biomolecules such as DNAs proteins and carbohydrates by taking advantage of differential bidirectional transport of biomolecules of different sizes through periodic arrays of microfabricated nanofilters.

The molecules for separation may be any which may be distinguished by the methods and via the devices of this invention. In one embodiment a solution or buffered medium comprising the molecules may be used in the methods and for the devices of this invention. In one embodiment such solutions or buffered media may comprise natural or synthetic compounds. In another embodiment the solutions or buffered media may comprise supernatants or culture media which in one embodiment are harvested from cells such as bacterial cultures or in another embodiment cultures of engineered cells wherein in one embodiment the cells express mutated proteins or overexpress proteins or other molecules of interest which may be thus applied. In another embodiment the solutions or buffered media may comprise lysates or homogenates of cells or tissue which in one embodiment may be otherwise manipulated for example wherein the lysates are subject to filtration lipase or collagenase etc. digestion as will be understood by one skilled in the art wherein a solution of desired molecules may be obtained and subjected to the methods of this invention.

In another embodiment the solutions or buffered media for use according to the methods and for use in the devices of this invention may comprise any fluid having molecules for separation with the described properties for example bodily fluids such as in some embodiments blood urine serum lymph saliva anal and vaginal secretions perspiration and semen or in another embodiment homogenates of solid tissues as described such as for example liver spleen bone marrow lung muscle nervous system tissue etc. and may be obtained from virtually any organism including for example mammals rodents bacteria etc. In some embodiments the solutions or buffered media may comprise environmental samples such as for example materials obtained from air agricultural water or soil sources which are present in a fluid which can be subjected to the methods of this invention. In another embodiment such samples may be biological warfare agent samples research samples and may comprise for example glycoproteins biotoxins purified proteins etc.

As will be appreciated by those in the art virtually any experimental manipulation may have been done on the sample prior to its use in embodiments of the present invention. For example a variety of manipulations may be performed to generate a liquid sample of sufficient quantity from a raw sample. In some embodiments gas samples and aerosol samples are so processed to generate a liquid sample containing molecules whose separation may be accomplished according to the methods of this invention.

In one embodiment the device is adapted such that analysis of a species of interest may be conducted in one embodiment in the sorter or in another embodiment downstream of the sorter. In one embodiment analysis downstream of the sorter refers to removal of the sorted species from the device and placement in an appropriate setting for analysis or in another embodiment construction of a conduit from the sorter for example from a collection port which relays the sorted material to an appropriate setting for analysis. In one embodiment such analysis may comprise signal acquisition and in another embodiment a data processor. In one embodiment the signal can be a photon electrical current impedance measurement or change in measurements. It is to be understood that the sorting device of this invention may be useful in various analytical systems including bioanalysis microsystems due to its simplicity performance robustness and integrabilty to other separation and detection systems and any integration of the device into such a system is to be considered as part of this invention.

For example as demonstrated herein in or when a mixture of fluorescently labeled low density human lipoprotein MW 179 kDa lectin phytohemagglutinin L MW 120 kDa and cholera toxin subunit B MW 11.4 kDa were imaged following continuous or pulse field separation the SDS protein complexes separated into three different streams which were collected in different channels and routed to different reservoirs.

In one embodiment the sorters devices of this invention may be imaged with a two dimensional detector. Imaging of the sorters devices or parts thereof may be accomplished by presenting it to a suitable apparatus for the collection of emitted signals such as in some embodiments optical elements for the collection of light from the microchannels.

In another embodiment the device is coupled to a separation system or in another embodiment a detection system or in another embodiment an analysis system or in another embodiment a combination thereof. In another embodiment the device is coupled to an illumination source.

In one embodiment the sorter may be disposable and in another embodiment may be individually packaged and in another embodiment have a sample loading capacity of 1 50 000 individual fluid samples. In one embodiment the sorter can be encased in a suitable housing such as plastic to provide a convenient and commercially ready cartridge or cassette. In one embodiment the sorter will have suitable features on or in the housing for inserting guiding and aligning the device such that for example a sample loading compartment is aligned with a reservoir in another device which is to be coupled to the sorter. For example the sorter may be equipped with insertion slots tracks or a combination thereof or other adaptations for automation of the sorting process via a device of this invention.

The sorter may be so adapted in one embodiment for high throughput sorting and analysis of multiple samples such as will be useful in proteomics applications as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment of the present invention the sorter is a part of a larger system which includes an apparatus to excite molecules inside the channels and detect and collect the resulting signals. In one embodiment a laser beam may be focused upon the device using a focusing lens in another embodiment. The generated light signal from the molecules inside the device may be collected by focusing collection lens and in another embodiment reflected off a dichroic minor band pass filter into optical path which may in another embodiment be fed into a CCD charge coupled device camera.

In another embodiment an exciting light source could be passed through a dichroic mirror band pass filter box and focusing collecting scheme from the top of the concentrator. Various optical components and devices can also be used in the system to detect optical signals such as digital cameras PMTs photomultiplier tubes and APDs Avalanche photodiodes .

In another embodiment the system may further include a data processor. In one embodiment the data processor can be used to process the signals from a CCD to a digital image of the concentrated species onto a display. In one embodiment the data processor can also analyze the digital image to provide characterization information such as size statistics histograms karyotypes mapping diagnostics information and display the information in suitable form for data readout.

In one embodiment the steps of sorting for example polypeptides obtained from a given cell producing digestion products and analyzing digestion products to determine protein sequence can be performed in parallel and or iteratively for a given sample providing a proteome map of the cell from which the polypeptides were obtained. Proteome maps from multiple different cells can be compared to identify differentially expressed polypeptides in these cells and in other embodiments the cells may be subjected to various treatments conditions or extracted from various sources with the proteome map thus generated reflecting differential protein expression as a result of the status of the cell.

In one embodiment subsequent to separation via the methods and utilizing the devices of this invention further analysis of the sorted materials is possible. Such analysis may be via direct coupling of the machinery necessary for such analysis to the outlet of a microchamber as herein described or in another embodiment samples are processed separately.

In one embodiment such subsequent analysis in addition or in parallel to those already described may comprise electrophoresis chromatography mass spectroscopy sequencing for example for the identification of particular proteins or peptides NMR and others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In some embodiments features of the present invention include 1 arrays of nanofilters serve as the sieving media 2 Ogston sieving mechanism within the nanofilter and the resulting differential bidirectional transport of biomolecules 3 various operation methods of the nanofilter array chip electrostatic force field based or hydrodynamic force field based with pulse field operation mode or continuous field operation mode .

In one embodiment the electrostatic force field or hydrodynamic force field is applied in pulse field operation mode or in another embodiment in continuous field operation mode as described and exemplified herein. In one embodiment voltage pressure timing or a combination thereof are varied when sorting a sample. In one embodiment the sample may be repetitively sorted varying specific conditions with each sort to further distinguish sorted species for example to obtain greater resolution in terms of size dependent sorting as a function of the timing voltage pressure or other means as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art in the context of the devices and methods of this invention.

In another embodiment the method further comprises the step of sorting a sample wherein the pH or ionic strength of the buffered solution is varied at the time of sorting as described.

In another embodiment the method further comprises the step of sorting a sample wherein the following parameters are modified 

1 Cross sectional shape or vertical profile of the thin thick regions can be rectangular shaped to trapezoidal shaped. This is determined by the fabrication process of the nanofilter matrix.

2 Different regions of the minimal sorting unit could have different nanofilters and different arrangement of the nanofilter arrays. for example different thin thick channel thickness combination along the vertical direction of the minimal sorting unit .

3 Surface potential surface charge density can be changed modulated by applying external potential to the substrate as a gate potential.

In one embodiment the methods and or devices of this invention provide separation capability of small biomolecules such as SDS protein complexes small double stranded DNA molecules 100 bp 2 Kb undenatured proteins and carbohydrates for example in demonstrated continuous flow separation of SDS protein complexes in a 60 nm nanofilter array chip under the continuous field separation mode and pulse field separation mode respectively. Since with the same fabrication techniques the nanofilter thin region depth can be further reduced down to 10 nm the present invention provides a means for size based continuous flow separation of small biomolecules such as proteins and carbohydrates by using an embodiment of the nanofilter array chip described herein. The invention in one embodiment thus provides a microfabricated molecular sieving chip that can size fractionate small biomolecules such as SDS protein complexes and small dsDNA molecules without using gel sieving matrices.

In another embodiment the invention encompasses continuous flow operation of the nanofilter array chip ideal for preparatory sample fractionation with increased sample throughput. The separation efficiency of the miniature nanofilter array chip is comparable to current state of the art systems i.e. capillary gel electrophoresis and because of their regular sieving structures the nanofilter array chip can be further optimized based on the understanding about the sieving process during the passage of the molecules through the nanofilter.

In another embodiment the devices of this invention can be used in continuous flow separation of native proteins based on either the protein s charge or size depending on the ionic strength of the buffer employed with the device. If the thickness of the electrical double layer the Debye length is modulated to be comparable to the height of the nanochannel e.g. under low ionic strength similar sized biomolecules bearing different net charges will have different apparent diffusion coefficients through a nanochannel. Such charge selective phenomena can be exploited with the devices of this invention in some embodiments in combination with active transport of biomolecules through the nanofluidic filter array when operated at low ionic strength 1.3 mM .

For example SiO surfaces in some embodiments of the devices of this invention are negatively charged leading to surface charge dominated transport through nanochannels where in this embodiment biomolecules with a lower negative net charge can jump through nanofilters with a greater probability than biomolecules bearing a higher negative net charge resulting in distinct streams through the devices in this embodiment. If the device according to this embodiment is operated at high ionic strength 130 mM where the Debye length is negligible size based separation of native proteins is expected because steric interactions between the biomolecules and the nanofilter walls are dominant. In some embodiments probe biomolecules that are smaller than the nanofilters are separated due to Ogston sieving.

In another embodiment the device is filled with low ionic strength buffer so that the thickness of the electrical double layer is no longer negligible as compared to the height of the shallow nanochannels h. At these ionic strengths co ions are excluded and counterions are enriched in nanometer sized apertures called the exclusion enrichment effect. This charge selectivity favors proteins with lower negative net charge for passage compared to biomolecules with higher negative net charge resulting in a bigger drift in the x direction with decreasing net negative charge as exemplified herein.

In another embodiment the nanofilter array chip may be batch fabricated in a cleanroom environment is chemically and mechanically robust and can be used over a long period without degradation of its characteristics. The chemical nature of nanofilter array surface can be tailored for a specific biomolecule to be analyzed. The nanofilter array chip allows the use of different buffer systems enabling the integration of different biomolecule sensors and separation and reaction chambers in one single chip without the concern of sieving matrix crosstalk and contamination. The separation resolution of the nanofilter array chip can be further improved by scaling down the nanofilter. Since sub 100 nm resolution photolithography is now routinely performed in the microelectronics industry such nanofilter array chip can be easily manufactured in a commercial setting.

The highlighted features listed above inter alia make the nanofilter array chip an ideal candidate as a separation scheme for a truly integrated proteomic sample preparation microsystem that includes fully integrated multiple separation and purification steps.

In another embodiment the sorters devices of this invention and methods of use thereof allow for size fractionation of smaller proteins out of a complex biomolecule sample. In serum analysis of biomarkers it is essential to fractionate smaller signaling molecules out of larger structural proteins such as albumin. Dialysis membrane fraction is not ideal for this application since they tend to lose smaller low abundance proteins and such methods are ideally suited for use with the sorters devices and or methods of this invention.

In another embodiment the sorters devices of this invention and methods of use thereof allow for size fractionation of carbohydrates. There is no well established separation technique for carbohydrate and sugar molecules which limits the development of potentially important biosensing and diagnostic tools based on sugar molecules. The sorters devices of this invention can be engineered to provide good separation efficiency for sugar molecules which is very difficult to separate and analyze with current conventional techniques.

In another embodiment the sorters devices of this invention and methods of use thereof allow for size fractionation of nanoparticles nanotubes and other nanotechnology tools. Nanotechnology requires nanoparticles or nanotubes that are uniform in size and shape while the chemical synthesis processes for these nanoparticles often generate particles that are diverse in size and shape. The sorters devices of this invention are useful for separating different nanoparticles based on their size and shape to obtain pure well characterized groups of nanoparticles.

In another embodiment the sorters devices of this invention and methods of use thereof allow for DNA sequencing. The sequencing of DNA is performed by size fractionation of a group of single stranded DNA using capillary gel electrophoresis with polymeric liquid sieving media. Since the separation efficiency and resolution of the sorters devices of this invention is comparable to that of capillary gel electrophoresis one could thus sequence the DNA without using liquid sieving media.

In another embodiment the sorters devices of this invention and methods of use thereof allow for rapid continuous fractionation of any biomolecule for example nucleic acid proteins carbohydrates etc. by taking advantage of differential bidirectional transport of biomolecules with varying physico chemical characteristics for example size charge hydrophobicity or combinations thereof through periodic arrays of microfabricated nanofilters. The passage of biomolecules through the nanofilter is a function in some embodiments of steric or electrostatic interactions between charged macromolecules and charged nanofilter walls. Continuous flow separation through the sorters devices of this invention are applicable for molecules varying in terms of any molecular properties e.g. size charge density or hydrophobicity that can lead to differential transport across the nanofilters. Embodiments of this invention include methods of utilization thereof for the separation of such biomolecules.

In some embodiments the separation methods devices sorters of this invention will include varying voltage or ionic strength of the solutions utilized which in turn may optimize separation of the biomolecules to specific streams and or optimization of the resolution or discrete boundaries of each respective stream. This will be apparent to one skilled in the art and embodiments of such optimization methods are exemplified hereinbelow.

The following examples are presented in order to more fully illustrate certain embodiments of the invention. They should in no way be construed however as limiting the broad scope of the invention.

dsDNA samples were purchased from New England BioLabs Beverly Mass. . They were labeled with an intercalating fluorescence dye YOYO 1 Molecular Probes in TBE 5 buffer for fluorescence detection. The dye to DNA base pair ratio was about 1 20 and the final DNA concentration was about 12.76 g ml in the TBE 5 sample solution. Three different fluorescein or Alexa Fluor 488 conjugated proteins were purchased from Molecular Probes cholera toxin subunit B lectin phytohemagglutinin L and low density human lipoprotein. The complete denaturation and dissociation of these proteins was performed by adding sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS Sigma and dithiothreitol DTT Sigma to the protein mixture. The SDS DTT protein mixture contained 2 wt SDS and 0.1M DDT and was treated in a 65 C. water bath for 10 minutes. The resultant SDS protein complex solution was further diluted in TBE 5 buffer to a protein concentration of 40 g ml. This final SDS protein complex sample solution contained 0.1 wt SDS and 5 M DTT.

The two dimensional nanofilter based devices were designed in such a way that the initial main stream of biomolecules was injected though a thick channel from a top corner of the device. The fractionated components of the sample mixture were collected at intervals along the opposite edge. Many microfluidic channels were designed to surround the nanofilter arrays and connect them to fluid reservoirs where voltages or pressures were applied. The channels provided sample loading and collection ports and created horizontal and vertical force fields across the entire nanofilter matrix.

Electrostatic force based or hydrodynamic based force fields were applied to the devices in pulse field or continuous field mode. In the continuous field operation mode constant force field was applied across the nanofilter matrix during the separation process. The field distribution and strength was modulated by alternating the voltages pressures applied at different fluidic reservoirs. In the pulse field operation mode the voltages pressures of different strengths or durations were applied at different reservoirs to alternate the force field in the nanofilter matrix.

To construct a device which can continuously fractionate small biomolecules such as proteins based on their sizes a nanofilter array chip was fabricated. The microchip comprising nanofilters representing an embodiment of this invention was constructed using conventional photolithography and reactive ion etching RIE techniques with nanofilter gap thickness ds as thin as 20 nm. The microchip was constructed to comprise thick channels 1 10 with width Lseparated by rows of nanofilters 1 20 with width of Wand length L. Rectangle shaped silicon pillars 1 30 were designed with width of Wto serve as supporting structures. The rows of nanofilters and silicon pillars may optionally have a lateral shift .

The separation mechanism of the sorter relies on different sieving characteristics along two orthogonal directions within the sorter which are set perpendicular and parallel to the nanofilter rows indicated as x and y axis respectively in . Upon application of an electric field Ey along the positive y axis uniformly negative charged molecules injected into the array assume a drift motion in deep channels with a negative velocity Vy that is size independent. An orthogonal electric field Ex is superimposed along the negative x axis across the nanofilters and this field selectively drives the drifting molecules in the deep channel to jump across the nanofilter in the positive x direction to the adjacent deep channel. Molecular crossings of the nanofilter under the influence of the electric field Ex can be described as biased thermally activated jumps across free energy barriers at the nanofilter threshold.

When molecules travel through the nanofilter their passage is sterically hindered due to the Ogston sieving process. For Ogston sieving this energy barrier originates from the configurational entropy loss within the constriction due to the steric constraints of the nanofilter wall and this barrier has been shown to favor molecules with a smaller size for passage resulting in a greater jump passage rate Px for shorter molecules. Therefore shorter molecules exercise a shorter mean characteristic drift distance L in the deep channels between two consecutive nanofilter crossings leading to a larger stream deflection angle .

A previous study on long DNA molecules trapped at a similar nanofluidic constriction showed that the activation free energy barrier for DNA escape depended solely on the inverse of the electric field strength 1 Ex 27. Further longer molecules have a larger surface area contacting the constriction and thus have a greater probability to form hernias that initiate the escape process i.e. a higher escape attempt frequency . Therefore in the entropic trapping regime longer molecules assume a greater jump passage rate Px resulting in a larger deflection angle .

The two dimensional nanofilter based devices have been designed in such a way that the initial main stream of biomolecules is injected though a thick channel 2 10 from a top corner of the device. The fractionated components of the sample mixture are collected at intervals along the opposite edge . Many microfluidic channels 2 30 are designed to surround the nanofilter arrays and connect them to fluid reservoirs 2 20 where voltages or pressures are applied. The channels provide sample loading and collection ports and they create horizontal and vertical force fields across the entire nanofilter matrix which is necessary for the operation of the nanofilter arrays.

One embodiment of such a device is shown in where the separation chamber consisted of rows of nanofilters was 5 mm 5 mm and the nanofilter had a width Ws and length Ls both of 1 m. The nanofilters were spaced by 1 m 1 m square shaped silicon pillars. There was no lateral shift between nanofilter rows in the device. The many microfluidic channels connecting to buffer reservoirs produced an electrostatic force field or hydrodynamic force field over the sieving matrix by acting as electric current injectors or fluidic flow injectors.

In one embodiment the device contains nanofilters with a constriction size of 55 nm. Deep channels separating the nanofilter rows are 1 m wide and 300 nm deep. The initial biomolecule stream is continuously injected into the deep channels on the top left of the device. The fractionated biomolecule streams are collected at intervals along the opposite edge. Microfluidic channels surrounding the sorter connect to fluid reservoirs where voltages are applied. The microfluidic channels provide sample loading and collection ports and further act as electric current injectors to create uniform horizontal and vertical electric fields over the device structure.

For operation of the device the force fields can be electrostatic force based or hydrodynamic force based and both of them can be operated in pulse field mode or continuous field mode. In the continuous field operation mode constant force field is applied across the nanofilter matrix during the separation process. The field distribution and strength can be modulated by alternating the voltages pressures applied at different fluidic reservoirs. In the pulse field operation mode the voltages pressures of different strengths or durations will be applied at different reservoirs to alternate the force field in the nanofilter matrix.

According to this embodiment illustrated in operation of the chip involves application of horizontal and vertical force fields across the entire nanofilter matrix. The four sides of the separation chamber are connected to the fluid reservoirs with microfluidic channels 2 30 left reservoir port 1 2 3 right reservoir port 4 5 top reservoir port 6 7 bottom reservoir port 8 9 10 . Different voltages or pressures can be applied at the fluid reservoirs 2 20 to generate the two dimensional force field pattern.

Molecules that can be separated in such a chip include but are not limited to proteins and DNA RNA carbohydrate sugar nanoparticles and small organelles.

Optimal sieving with a nanofilter is expected when the molecule size is comparable with the nanofilter thin gap size. However the gap size of the nanofilter does not have to be smaller than the size of the molecule. Indeed the separation of SDS proteins typically 10 nm in physical dimensions using nanofilters as large as 60 nm is feasible. If one wishes to separate different larger or smaller biomoelcules in this chip nanofilter gap size can be adapted to the molecules to be separated.

To demonstrate continuous flow separation of small biomolecules with the invention of the nanofilter array chip SDS protein complexes and small double stranded DNA molecules were separated using a microchip as depicted in in continuous field separation mode . In the electrostatic force based continuous field separation mode constant field is applied across the nanofilter arrays during the separation process. The field distribution and strength can be modulated by alternating the voltages applied at different fluidic reservoirs.

Fluorescence images of continuous field separation of SDS protein complexes inside the 2 D nanofilter based matrix shows three distinct bands with the following assignment for the SDS protein complexes 1 low density human lipoprotein MW 179 kDa 2 lectin phytohemagglutinin L MW 120 kDa 3 cholera toxin subunit B MW 11.41 kDa . When only a horizontal field was applied Eh 300 V cm no observable separation between the three complexes occurs however three distinct species are resolved when both horizontal and vertical fields were applied Eh 200 V cm Ev 100 V cm . Separated molecules were collected in different channels and routed to different reservoirs as designed in this embodiment of the chip.

In another embodiment of the microseparator separation can also be achieved using alternating electric fields of different strengths and or durations in the pulse field separation mode . In the embodiment presented here the voltage was applied at different reservoirs where the horizontal electric field Eh alternated with the vertical electric field Ev and increasing the duration of the vertical force field enhanced the separation. Thus more size differential jumpings over the nanofilters were experienced in the case of longer duration of the vertical electric field.

While many different artificial molecular sieving matrixes are known in the art for size fractionation of biomolecules based on different mechanisms to date microfabricated artificial sieving systems have been limited for separation of large biomolecules such as viral DNA mainly because it is generally challenging to fabricate sieves with comparable molecular dimensions.

Typical proteins have molecular dimensions of 1 5 nm and while there are several reports on the fabrication of nanofluidic channels as small as 10 nm it is generally challenging to fabricate such nanofluidic structures.

In the nanofilter array chip of this invention however the batch fabrication method of the nanofilters was incorporated with a novel sample loading and separation scheme thus uniquely separates small biomolecules such as SDS protein complexes small double stranded DNA molecules 100 bp 2 Kb undenatured proteins and carbohydrates in either continuous field separation mode or pulse field separation mode.

Since with the same fabrication techniques the nanofilter thin region depth can be further reduced down to 10 nm it is possible to achieve size based continuous flow separation of small biomolecules such as proteins and carbohydrates by using the nanofilter array chip. This is therefore the first microfabricated molecular sieving chip that can size fractionate small biomolecules such as SDS protein complexes and small dsDNA molecules without using gel sieving matrices.

The continuous flow operation of the nanofilter array chip is ideal for preparatory sample fractionation with increased sample throughput. The separation efficiency of the miniature nanofilter array chip is comparable to current state of the art systems i.e. capillary gel electrophoresis . Because of their regular sieving structures the nanofilter array chip can be further optimized based on the understanding about the sieving process during the passage of the molecules through the nanofilter.

Another advantage to the array chip presented here is the ability to batch fabricate it in a cleanroom environment that it is chemically and mechanically robust and can be used over a long period without degradation of its characteristics. The chemical nature of nanofilter array surface can also be tailored for a specific biomolecule to be analyzed.

The microseparators described herein allow for the use of different buffer systems therefore enabling integration of different sensors and separation and reaction chambers in a single chip without sieving matrix crosstalk and contamination. Moreover the microseparators described herein may serve as part of a lab on a chip scenario with a truly integrated proteomic sample preparation microsystem that includes fully integrated multiple separation and purification steps.

In another embodiment of the device and its operation a PCR marker sample was introduced into the device under a broad range of field conditions . PCR markers which contained 5 different DNA fragments of sizes ranging from 50 to 766 base pairs bp were used. Since the persistence length of DNA is about 50 nm about the contour length of 150 bp DNA the PCR marker fragments appear relatively straight and recognizable as rigid rod like molecules with an end to end distance of about 16 nm to 150 nm. The entry into the confining nanofilter can be realized if the rod like DNA molecules are properly positioned and oriented without overlapping the wall which limits the configurational freedom and creates an entropic barrier i.e. Ogston sieving . are fluorescence photographs of the PCR marker stream pattern in the device when horizontal and vertical fields of different values were applied. The horizontal field Equickly deflected DNA fragments according to their sizes with the stream deflection angle and the stream width W depending on the exact field conditions. Increasing the horizontal field Eresulted in larger deflection angles as well as wider spreading of the streams. Increasing Eenhanced the jump passage rate P leading to a shorter drift distance L and thus a larger deflection angle .

The vertical electric field Ealso affects the deflection angle . As Ewas raised from 25 V cm to 75 V cm at fixed E 35 V cm the DNA stream pattern became more focused with shorter DNA fragments 50 bp 150 bp shifting towards the negative x direction and longer DNA fragments 300 bp 500 bp 766 bp shifting towards the positive. A greater vertical field Eshortens the time for DNA to explore the transition through a nanofilter threshold which explains the behavior of short DNA with increased E. The long DNA fragments shifted reproducibly with Eup to 125 V cm which in one embodiment is due to the slight field non uniformity in the device.

In another embodiment of the device and its operation large molecules for example long DNA molecules can be separated based on an entropic trapping mechanism. Toward this end a DNA Hind III digest was prepared which contained 6 DNA fragments with sizes ranging from 2.027 to 23.13 kilobase pairs kbp and corresponding radii of gyration Rof about 140 nm to 520 nm.

These radii are greater than the nanofilter constriction size in the device according to this embodiment and therefore the nanofilter jump dynamics necessarily involved deformation and hernia nucleation i.e. entropic trapping of the molecules. With application of a horizontal field of E 185 V cm and a vertical field of E 100 V cm the DNA Hind III digest was separated in less than 1 minute with base line resolution note the shortest 2.027 kbp fragment was too dim for clear visualization in the figure but using a higher CCD gain setting and longer CCD exposure time the 2.027 kbp fragment was identified to be base line separated with the others .

Time lapse video studies revealed that as expected longer DNA fragments followed more deflected migration trajectories than shorter ones a clear distinction of entropic trapping from Ogston sieving. A threshold value for the horizontal field was observed E 15 V cm below which long DNA molecules were virtually completely confined in the deep channels . This threshold phenomenon in some embodiments is due to the difficulty of hernia formation in a low field regime since the constriction size of 55 nm is comparable to the DNA persistence length. The streams of DNA Hind III digest followed more deflected and resolved trajectories as Ewas increased an observation which is in some embodiments consistent with the argument that increased Elowers the activation energy barrier leading to a higher jump passage rate P.

In some embodiments the device is capable of separating mixtures of proteins that have different molecular weights MW . Two Alexa Fluor 488 conjugated protein complexes were prepared cholera toxin subunit B MW 11.4 kDa and galactosidase MW 116.3 kDa . The complexes were denatured with sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS and dithiothreitol DTT and applied to the device as in the previous example. A horizontal field of E 75 V cm and vertical field of E 50 V cm were applied and the SDS protein complexes were base line separated into 2 streams within 2 minutes. The protein stream widths at 1 mm 3 mm and 5 mm from the injection point corresponded to resolutions Rof 0.57 0.94 and 1.47 respectively . Cholera toxin subunit B was deflected more than galactosidase in all the experiments suggesting Ogston sieving to account for the jump dynamics of these linear protein complexes . Further increasing Eresulted in larger lateral separation between the two streams. However resolution Rwas compromised due to broader lateral diffusion as evidenced by the decrease in the resolution curve . The separation resolution for proteins may also be improved by increasing separation distance.

In some embodiments a transition between Ogston sieving and entropic trapping may occur with the devices of this invention. The trajectories of different sized DNA molecules for example are consistent with either Ogston sieving or entropic trapping . Crossover from Ogston sieving to entropic trapping in the device may occur as molecular size or confinement increases and the transition regime for example with the present studies involving DNA can be estimated to be between 1 kbp to 2 kbp which is concurrent with the transition of DNA rod like conformations to coiled conformations.

In the Ogston sieving regime the nanofilter jump passage rate Pfor short DNA of a by number N can be calculated based on the equilibrium partitioning theory and the Kramers rate theory. In the limit of low field the passage rate Pis proportional to EK N where K is the DNA equilibrium partitioning coefficient that is calculated as the ratio of accessible microscopic configuration state integrals within shallow and deep regions across the nanofilter.

where is a constant with a unit of V m bp . By definition is the ratio between the mobility along the x axis and the maximum sieving free mobility across a nanofilter. Thus the tangent of the stream deflection angle can be approximately written as 

where Vand Vare the migration velocities along the positive x and negative y axis respectively and is the free solution mobility. In Eq. 7 2 DNA fragments were assumed to preserve their free draining property in the device deep regions along the y axis. depends on the structural parameters of the ANA and 4dd d d 0.52 for the device tested in the described examples.

The equilibrium partitioning coefficient K can be calculated as in Fu et al. Fu J. Yoo J. Han J. Phys. Rev. Lett. 97 art. no. 018103 2006 . When small molecules such as short DNA are used Eq. 7 2 becomes tan 0.52E E which indicates a sieving free case in the device.

The values obtained for tan for the PCR maker sample in agreed with the curves calculated from Eq. 7 2 . The best fitting constant was found to be fairly constant for the different DNA fragments. The slight deviation of the theoretical curves from the deflection angle data in the low Eregime might be attributed to the field non uniformity in the device.

Based on the calculation of P a course grained kinetic model was constructed that in some embodiments explain the field dependent stream deflection angle of the PCR marker fragments .

From the fluorescence intensity profile of the coefficients of variation CVs for the 150 bp 300 bp and 500 bp DNA stream profiles are 8.6 6.0 and 4.5 respectively. Therefore the size selectivity of the ANA in the Ogston sieving regime is about 5 nm corresponding to the end to end distance of 20 bp DNA . The separation efficiency of the device can be further characterized by the effective peak capacity nthat defines the maximum number of separated streams that fit into the space provided by the separation. shows the dependence of non the horizontal field Ewhere ninitially increased quickly with Eand then leveled off with an upper bound value of about 17. This asymptotic behavior of ncan be largely attributed to the DNA stream widening with increased E which cancels out the increased lateral separation between the streams.

The effective peak capacity nfor DNA Hind III digest as a function of Ewas plotted The ncurve appears similar to the one observed for Ogston sieving with an upper bound value of about 15.

Continuous flow separation through the devices of this invention should be applicable to other molecular properties e.g. charge density or hydrophobicity that can lead to differential transport across the nanofilters. The continuous flow operation of the device permits continuous harvesting of the subset of biomolecules of interest to enhance the specificity and sensitivity of downstream biosensing and detection. The high resolution separation and ease of sample collection may prove useful for preparative separation of complex biological samples which has promising implications for inter alia proteomic research and biomarker discovery. The sample throughput of the device can be further scaled up by parallelism with multi device processing. Devices of this invention in some embodiments can be used as a generic sieving structure to separate other particles of interest with nanoscale dimensions including nanoparticles and nanowires viruses and cell organelles.

Two different concentrations of Tris Borate EDTA buffer TBE Sigma Aldrich were chosen high ionic strength measurements were performed at TBE 5 equivalent ionic strength 130 mM 0.84 nm and TBE 0.05 was used as low ionic strength buffer equivalent ionic strength 1.3 mM 8.4 nm . The pH of the buffer was adjusted to 9.6 by addition of potassium hydroxide and the chips were electroosmotically flushed with the corresponding solution for more than 24 hours before use. The following commercially available proteins were investigated B phycoerythrin Alexis Biochemicals which is fluorescent with molecular weight MW 240 kDa value from manufacturer and pI 4.2 4.4 fibrinogen labeled with Alexa Fluor 488 Molecular Probes with MW 340 kDa and pI 5.5 lectin from lentil FITC conjugate Sigma Aldrich with MW 49 kDa and pI 8.0 for the acidic band lectin pI 8.5 for the middle band lectin and pI 8.8 for the basic band lectin streptavidin labeled with Alexa Fluor 488 Molecular Probes with MW 52.8 kDa and pI 5 6. The protein concentration was 0.1 0.2 mg ml and only the lectin was used at a higher concentration of 0.2 0.4 mg ml due to its lower fluorescence intensity compared to the other proteins. These concentrations were chosen for a good signal to background ratio and working at lower concentration does not affect their separation behavior. Fluorescence measurements were performed using an inverted epifluorescence microscope IX 71 Olympus with a 20 objective numerical aperture 0.45 or a 10 objective numerical aperture 0.3 illuminated by a 100 W mercury lamp Chiu Technical Corp. . B phycoerythrin was visualized with a Texas Red filter set excitation 562 nm emission 624 nm Semrock whereas all other proteins were observed using a FITC filter set excitation 482 nm emission 536 nm Semrock . Images were taken with a digital CCD camera ORCA ER Hamamatsu Photonics and analyzed with IPLab Scanalytics . Background fluorescence levels were subtracted and a moving average was applied for the fluorescence intensity cross sections.

Size based separation of fibrinogen MW 340 kDa B phycoerythrin MW 240 kDa and lectin MW 49 kDa was obtained using the higher ionic strength buffer TBE 5 as presented in . The sample was injected at the top left of the image in with the vertical electric field Eusing electroosmotic flow and separated by the horizontal field E. The cross section through the array along the dashed lines at the bottom of the images in is shown in where the black line represents FITC and the grey line Texas Red fluorescence intensities. Three streams of the native proteins can be distinguished corresponding to the molecular size of the biomolecules. The largest protein fibrinogen is least deflected in the x direction whereas the smallest investigated biomolecule lectin was deflected the most. This increase in deflection is caused by 55 nm high channels acting as entropic barriers and the possibility to overcome these nanochannels increases with decreasing molecular size consistent with an Ogston sieving mechanism.

The separation distance between the protein streams is dependent on the applied electric fields Eand Ewhich is shown in for fibrinogen and B phycoerythrin. For a fixed Ethe curve indicates a maximal separation distance for a specific E and this maximum increases with decreasing E. To discuss this behavior the Peclet number Pe is considered which represents the ratio of convective to diffusional transport 

Charge based separation of native protein molecules has been achieved at TBE 0.05 . To exclude size based separation effects two biomolecules with approximately the same MW and different pI values were investigated streptavidin with MW 52.8 kDa and pI 5 6 and lectin with MW 49 kDa and pI 8.0 8.8. The left image of presents that at TBE 0.05 a charge based separation of streptavidin and lectin has been obtained due to the difference in pI values. The pH value of the TBE buffer was 9.6 which is higher than the pI values of both proteins resulting in negative net charges for both biomolecules. Streptavidin has a lower pI value than lectin and is therefore more negatively charged. This increased negative net charge results in a larger repulsion from the nanofilter walls and in a lower deflection in x direction. As a reference no separation has been observed at TBE 5 between streptavidin and lectin right image of which shows that differences in the MW of 3.8 kDa can not be resolved via this embodiment of the device.

Taken together these results indicated that the size difference between the two proteins does not affect their separation obtained at low ionic strength and is thus a charge based separation process. The increased bending of the streams at low compared to high ionic strength in indicates the electric field distribution was more inhomogeneous at TBE 0.05 . presents the fluorescence intensity along the dotted lines in the images of for TBE 0.05 black line and TBE 5 grey line .

At low ionic strength charge based separation was demonstrated for B phycoerythrin fibrinogen and lectin . The left image shows separation of fibrinogen and lectin which are fluorescent in the green range and the right image corresponds to the orange fluorescent B phycoerythrin. The buffer was TBE 0.05 pH 9.6 accordingly these proteins were negatively charged. B phycoerythrin with pI 4.2 4.4 bears the highest net charge out of the investigated proteins and was therefore most repelled from the charge selective 55 nm high channels leading to a small deflection in x direction. The pI value of fibrinogen was 5.5 due to which its deflection along the x axis was increased as compared to B phycoerythrin. Lectin has pI values 8.0 8.5 and 8.8 acidic middle and basic band lectin and therefore bears the lowest negative net charges out of the used biomolecules resulting in the lowest repulsion from the nanofilter walls and their largest deflection in x direction which is shown in . In this graph the fluorescence intensity of the dashed lines in is plotted for the FITC filter set black and Texas Red filter set grey . The peak of lectin is not as sharp as the peaks of the other proteins because lectin from lentil contains acidic middle and basic band lectin which have not been fully separated but only widened on this ANA not at TBE 5 refer to . Compared to the results at high ionic strength the streams of fibrinogen and B phycoerythrin are reversed because at low ionic strength it is no longer the molecular size but the pI value of the protein which determines the separation. It has to be annotated that the electric field strengths at low and high ionic strength can not be compared because the electroosmotic flow increases with dilution. These increased flow rates at TBE 0.05 lead to a typical residence time of 13 s velocity 384.6 m s of the proteins in the whole ANA.

Charge based separation resolution Rcan be improved by increasing the number of nanofilters through which the sieving is taking place. This improvement is obtained by increasing the field Ewhile keeping Econstant as shown in . The separation resolution between two streams a and b is defined as

In some embodiments separation may be improved by optimizing the following parameters increasing the electric field may improve the charge based resolution decreasing the height of the channels and or by using a gate electrode to actively control the surface potential.

While certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

