---

title: Modular breaching and demolition system
abstract: A modular explosive breaching and demolition system comprised of inert light weight plastic assemblies, field custom hand packed or pre-loaded, utilizing for example cast-cure or press loaded explosives. The assemblies can be snapped together to make different geometeric shapes or lines as may be desired, for demolition objectives.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08365666&OS=08365666&RS=08365666
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08365666
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110208
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

There exists a constant need for soldiers to enter fortified or non fortified structures objectives through unconventional means often referred to as breaching. With current urban type conflicts collateral damage is a concern when insurgents reside among non insurgents whether in the same structure or in near by structures. There is great need for operations which will limit collateral damage. Current theatre environments limit the ability to utilize conventional weapons to suppress an objective in a target such as by firing for affect and demolishing such fortified or non fortified structure but require instead a non conventional means of suppression through breaching sweeping and clearing such structures. Therefore soldiers are often called upon to clear buildings or to produce an ingress route into a building all while unbeknownst to the objective. This approach can allow the soldier to suprise the objective and limit confrontation or perhaps to be able to capture the objective.

This invention provides a very versatile new explosive breaching system which can aid the warfighter in such operations. This system can be used but is not limited to produce an ingress route in fortified or non fortified structures large enough for a soldier to gain access to an objective an effective breaching charge. This system could also be used in structural demolition conventional and non conventional breaching along with materiel demolition. The system could also be used in the field to dispose of excess ammunition or other war fighter materiel not wished to be abandoned for possible use by an adversary. The system is herein also referred to as the Modular Breaching and Demolition System MBDS .

This system utilizes either inert light weight non metallic assemblies hand packed prior to a mission or light weight pre loaded conventional energetic assemblies utilizing cast cure or press loaded explosives. The system is generally made so it can fit in a soldier s ruck sack and because it is modular its net explosive weight can be tailored to the target needs. As an added benefit this system is only approximately one third the weight compared to conventionally issued soldier demolition kits. As a further benefit this system can still be classified in the same safety class as bulk explosives for the configuration where the base system is not designed to produce fragments thus there is less red tape in distributing obtaining the system. If desired a soldier can still choose to incorporate a liner into any one or all of the assemblies to produce a shaped charge type explosion.

By contrast a current breaching system fielded to the soldiers uses home made breaching charges which are field configured on the spot to carry out the mission in a timely manner often utilize bulk explosives detonating cord and often also require soldiers to improvise use of surrounding natural resources to make a frame for the explosives. Though relatively quick to setup if not relying on natural resources such home made breaching types still are heavy some approximately twenty eight lbs . They are also often quantity limited in availability to soldier units consumable and some are in a safety class different from that of bulk explosives making for more red tape in handling. The field produced charge versions of these conventional systems might be lighter and can be made from bulk explosives readily available to soldier units and can be configured for different breaching applications but they still rely on having the necessary natural resources to produce a frame. They also require large amounts of detonation cord to propagate the detonation around the frame. They also require more time to produce the frame breaching charge and they also require first hand knowledge of how to reliably build and match a breaching charge to an intended target to produce the desired effects.

Both the pre loaded and hand packed versions of this MBDS invention improve over such conventional field produced breaching charges. The MBDS will be organic to a unit of soldiers. The MBDS doesn t utilize natural resources in the surroundings and doesn t need detonation cords to propagate detonation. The MBDS is light weight and after hand packing or if utilizing the pre loaded version can be assembled in a few minutes at the last concealed and covered position. Further if the soldier wished a liner can be snapped into the MDBS to give a capability which field produced breaching charges currently do not have tailored fragment generation .

In more detail this MDBS system is comprised of multiple assemblies which can be arranged into different geometeric shapes or lines linked together by a hinged system with clocking features and continuous cavity paths. The assemblies are made of a few inert non metallic material pieces which snap or slide together to produce a cavity which can be hand packed with high explosives or can be pre loaded with high explosive. Assemblies can then be used to produce any desired shape whether square line T or E shape for example. The assemblies have features which also allow a soldier to couple a shaped charge or anti personnel liner into the MDBS if desired. Since the liner is not permanently attached to the assemblies the soldier can choose to make the MDBS a fragment producing or non fragmenting charge depending on the target set.

A novelty in the MDBS design is the fact that it utilizes press fit joints hinged with clocking features to produce any desired shape capable of being made with line segments. The way the cavity or high explosive in each assembly is positioned with respect to another assembly when connected and adjoined allows an ignition detonation wave to propagate from one assembly to the next without the need of multiple detonation cords or multiple initiation points as in the conventional breaching systems. Each assembly in and of itself is also capable of having a node attached to it if desired. Such could increase the net explosive weight of the breaching charge which would allow the MDBS breaching charge to be tailored to a particular target.

Materials used for the MDBS structure are non metallic this fact leads to a weight reduction in the final breaching charge assembly compared to metallic materials. Such therefore allows for quicker implementation and functioning of the system. Nonetheless such non metallic materials if desired can be impregnated with metallic particles such as aluminum which can enhance the high explosive effects. Such non metallic materials can also be reinforced with fibers to make the pieces and assemblies more rigid. Since the material is generally entirely non metallic all traces of the assembly are consumed during detonation which prevents enemies from tracing the system or from reverse engineering the system. Another valued feature is the ability to also introduce a fragmenting charge if desired. Such is accomplished by snapping coupling in a liner within the segments or otherwise by utilizing predesigned features built into the MDBS.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide soldiers with a field demolition system which comprises inert modular pieces for customized assembly of a breaching or demolition system that the soldier requires for a particular task.

Another object of this invention is to provide soldiers with a modular field demolition system of only a few types of basic plastic components that can be snapped together by hand without need of specialized tools of finding natural resources in the field.

A yet further object of this invention is to provide soldiers with a modular field demolition system which requires no detonation cord to successfully explode such entire assembled system.

A still further object of this invention is to provide soldiers with a field demolition system of relatively light weight and which can also be preloaded or custom hand loaded with plasticized explosive material in the field as the soldier requires for a particular task.

A yet other object of the present invention is to provide a field demolition system which can be customized to form an inert frame which can support the positioning of trimmed sheet explosive such as detasheet explosive between frame and target.

A still further object of the present invention is to provide a field demolition system which can be custom loaded with fragment producing shaped liners or with fragment producing explosively formed penetrators or a pre formed fragment pack similar to a claymore as the soldier may require for a particular task.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention the claims and in light of the following drawings wherein reference numerals may be reused where appropriate to indicate a correspondence between the referenced items. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here for visual clarity and for purposes of explanation. It is also to be understood that the specific embodiments of the present invention that have been described herein are merely illustrative of certain applications of the principles of the present invention. It should further be understood that the geometry compositions values and dimensions of the components described herein can be modified within the scope of the invention and are not generally intended to be exclusive. Numerous other modifications can be made when implementing the invention for a particular environment without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The MDBS breaching charge system according to this invention is made up essentially interconnected modular plastic legs which are usually filled with an explosive material the legs are arranged in preferred patterns useful for field breaching of a target. The legs shown are made of plastic or rubber if more flexibility of the MBDS is desired but many other lightweight sturdy inert nonmetallic materials might be considered for substitution if compatible to the environment used and suitable for holding explosives. The MBDS may be of nonmagnetic material but may also employ magnetic portions or magnets proper as portions in the MBDS frame for additional advantage of magnetic clinging to a target set in particular cases where such is desirable. Numerous patterns for arranging emplacing the legs in a chain should be seen as possible while these patterns are not all fully discussed herein they are in fact best known well know to soldiers who have performed demolition breaching as one of their specialties. An explosive type suggested for this invention might be C 4 and would likely be handled in a plasticized form but solid blocks of explosive are also a possibility as well as other suitable types of explosive materials. shows an inert male plastic piece which is a half section piece of what will be built up into a leg when joined with a mating female piece see . Such leg may thereafter be serially joined with one or more other male and or female type pieces to form a chain of these legs . Piece has a rectangular box cavity formed by sides to hold explosives however box also opens through passage into a recessed ring area . Explosive is filled throughout in recessed ring passage as well as in box and also in a passageway in tab which further insures ignition contact shock wave propagation of explosive between adjacent pieces legs of a chain to be explained further below . Likewise in female piece there is a recessed ring shaped area which through wide passage area connects up with its rectangular box cavity area . Explosive will fill all of box ring area and passage . Area which reinforces hole is higher in level than ring area so as to contain the . Furthermore there is also a passageway in tab which further insures ignition contact shock wave propagation of explosive between adjacent pieces legs of a chain. This contiguous ignition contact shock wave propagation through all pieces legs in a chain makes it only necessary to have a single ignition source to ignite an entire chain instead of multiple wires blasting caps and detonation cord as may have been necessary with other demolition systems. However redundant wiring may be added to as many locations as desired to insure a successful explosion and breaching operation of the whole chain or chains of pieces legs. The bottom side of piece is generally just flat as is the bottom side of piece .

Female piece could be used to mate to piece or else used with yet other male pieces to build up a string of legs in a chain. Piece has a post which will mate with hole of piece . Post also has a slight dimple recessed top area . Piece could be joined face to face with piece so that post goes into hole all the while that the half cavity formed by rectangular box shape directly fits in to and mates into the half cavity rectangular box shape and the two pieces could thus be snapped together and joined into a completed leg . The leg would have a completed inside cavity which might be filled with explosive for example. The leg is roughly an inch thick but roughly two inches wide. The first position just mentioned can form a sealed cavity device. However in a more preferred second configuration here one of the two pieces to be joined is positioned where its longitudinal axis is 180 degrees rotated planarly than was above described. The cavity is still formed by the mating of boxes and which still snap together just as snugly even in this backwards second configuration however in this second configuration post of male piece does not mate into hole of female piece . Instead the post and the hole are positioned at opposite poles fully 180 degrees away from each other and each is left exposed and not mated. Post has a hole to allow the MBDS to be hung from a stud strung together on a line etc. for convenience.

Ideally to begin constructing a chain one begins with any two pieces whether and or both or both and joins them in the second configuration as above described. That is the post or hole parts of these pieces are made to not be adjacent or opposite one another while the two rectangular box cavities are indeed adjacent and joined then both snapped into one another permanently. These two will now be considered the first leg here in building up the chain. Thereafter in either direction further pieces are mated onto this first leg at either end of this first leg by inserting a respective post or a respective hole of a new respective piece into an exposed respective hole or post as the case may be adding onto the existing above described first leg and therefore likewise linked on. By adding on pieces theoretically ad infinitim in either direction a chain could be created of any desired number of legs pieces with their flat portions alternately facing up or down in one direction or in its opposite direction towards the target. Like the leg the chain would also be roughly an inch thick but roughly two inches wide. The length of the chain depends on how many pieces are linked together. An entire geometric shape can be made of such chained pieces because it will be seen that the post like of a newly added piece may be rotated about its mating hole like by close to 90 degrees in either a clockwise or in a counterclockwise direction. This will change the direction the chain is aimed in and thus allow different selected shapes to be created by a chain or a joining of chains together. It will be seen that the rounded edge of piece has gear shaped grooves interspersed between more flat portions . These grooves are sized for holding a small tab such as on a to be snapped in mating piece like for example or perhaps a tab of another male piece if the case might be. Thus piece can be clocked around the hole of piece by close to 90 degrees in either a clockwise or a counterclockwise direction as was described and held in place by such tab being in a groove such as shown by on a piece like . Likewise piece has a tab sized to fit into a groove on a mating piece like . Thus a piece could likewise be clocked around the post of a piece like a piece by close to 90 degrees in either a clockwise or a counterclockwise direction as was described. This enables the pieces in a chain to be set into a select direction at each juncture and held by the lock of a tab in the serrated areas as was described. Chains can thus be made in many forms and contain many angles and lengths and the chains can be combined as desired to form a larger frame that can be used for breaching or other demolition type tasks. Chains can be combined into for instance an irregular S chain E shapes square shapes cross like shapes other polygonal type shapes spoke like snowflake type configurations when used with a hub piece e.g. porthole configurations X shapes and window frame like shapes for example to be further described below. There are also other possible variations of shown pieces and to accommodate other functions and the pieces could also be designed to be made in other sizes dimensions shapes colors and or even color coded as may be needed or found desirable. A middle piece for example is a component for simultaneous joining legs chains of three different paths at one juncture point.

Detasheet sheet explosive may be placed in a leg or legs or between a leg or legs and the target. In such case the detasheet is trimmed to the outline profile of the frame and hub piece if any as against the target it may also be used untrimmed in the proper cases as best known to the soldier . The detasheet may also be wrapped entirely around a leg both above the leg draping down the long sides of the leg then completely under the leg over against the target or of the entire frame. Detonation of such detasheet in known manner will produce a satisfactory breakage into the target along the outline profile of the frame and hub piece if any . The detasheet can also be used without or with a loading of explosive or within the legs or hub piece as may be desired. In fact one use of the MDBS according to this invention is simply to form an inert frame structure around which datasheet may be deployed to breach a target. This can happen by design or in a case where the soldier might run out of explosive in the field for instance.

It will be appreciated that the MBDS provides a soldier with a very versatile lightweight system having simple snap together building blocks which can be conveniently loaded as desired with explosives used with detasheet or metallic liners EFP s pre form fragments such as balls cubes stars etc. and used against a target. The soldier does not have to look for hard to obtain natural objects to build up a frame to support his demolition needs with an MBDS.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

