---

title: Mobile based learning and testing system for automated test assignment, automated class registration and customized material delivery
abstract: A mobile based learning and testing system comprising a mobile device for mobile based learning and testing, wherein the mobile device is communicatively coupled to a server that supports retrieving educational and instructional material and testing. The mobile device comprises a downloadable educational mobile app capable of presenting educational and instructional material retrieved from the server, facilitating group interactions, providing a mock test, conducting an actual test and arranging automatic registration of a user of the mobile device based on a test result from the actual test. The downloadable educational mobile app presents the educational and instructional material (retrieved from the server, or locally available in the mobile device where it is stored in storage components) to the user of the mobile device based at least on the user's membership in a group of users, the user's membership information being maintained by the server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583030&OS=08583030&RS=08583030
owner: 
number: 08583030
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20110211
---
The present patent application is a continuation in part of claims priority to and makes reference to U.S. non provisional patent Ser. No. 11 977 763 entitled MOBILE DEVICE THAT PRESENTS INTERACTIVE MEDIA AND PROCESSES USER RESPONSE filed on Oct. 25 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 983 611. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The non provisional application Ser. No. 11 977 763 is itself a continuation in part of claims priority to and makes reference to U.S. non provisional patent Ser. No. 11 821 771 entitled SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING INTERACTIVE USER INTEREST SURVEY TO USER OF MOBILE DEVICE filed on Jun. 25 2007 now U.S. Pat No. 8 135 331. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. provisional patent Ser. No. 60 860 700 entitled AUDIO GUIDED SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING GUIDANCE TO USER OF MOBILE DEVICE ON MULTI STEP ACTIVITIES filed on Nov. 22 2006. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 524 568 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS filed on Nov. 24 2003. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Provisional Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 985 702 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS filed on Nov. 10 2004. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application makes reference to U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 530 175 entitled QUESTIONNAIRE NETWORK FOR MOBILE HANDSETS AND A TRADING SYSTEM FOR CONTRACTS ON USER COMMITMENTS TO ANSWER QUESTIONNAIRES filed on Dec. 17 2003. The complete subject matter of the above referenced United States Provisional Patent Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to educational services and specifically to the teaching and testing using technology.

In the last decade a lot of technical developments have made communication easy and widely available. Education of children has not caught up with changes in lifestyles. Educational services have not adapted adequately to employ new tools and technologies that can deliver more effective education. For example mobile phones of all kinds have proliferated all over the world. Some of them are small tiny cellular phones others are more powerful and flexible smartphones some are small electronic tablets and tiny netbooks etc. All of these are very convenient to use. But our schools not only ban the use of mobile devices during school hours but also do not encourage their use for educational needs. In fact schools in general are not equipped to employ newer technologies that can make learning interesting and easy.

Some schools have computer labs where students watch a demonstration of an experiment. Some schools allow their users to browse the web for information. Some educational websites have put up books online that a user can browse. Most of these websites are good at providing some sections of a book for perusal by a user using a browser. However children need to be able to get to a computer laptop to access these sites not many students have access to computers in this world. In addition to computers laptops a student needs broadband connections to browse these content rich websites.

A number of high school children every year take standardized tests such SAT and ACT exams and many of them attend SAT and ACT preparatory classes. These classes are fast paced and useful. However these classes require a student to physically attend these sessions and they add to the educational burden of these students and eat into their time for studies. Often students purchase test practice work books and use them to get acclimatized to the test situations. These work books are big fat heavy books and are quite inconvenient to carry and daunting to a student. These books often put off a an aspiring student.

The Internet is a very powerful communication means and quite often the mobile devices available in the world can employ the Internet for communication. Most of them also employ the telecom networks such as cellular networks for communication. Some of the mobile devices can use both the Internet as well as the telecom networks for communications.

People using mobile devices such as mobile phones often find a camera embedded in the mobile phones and take pictures. Some of them are also capable of emailing these pictures to friends. Of late some mobile devices have become capable of displaying digital videos and movies. Some of them are also able to capture small digital video clips. Various mobile applications have been created and the demand for them is increasing. Mobile phone users for example can download thousands of mobile apps and often clutter up their mobile phones. However there are very no mobile apps that address educational services. Similarly there are no mobile apps that address testing services.

These is a need to make mobile applications for education. There is a need to make such mobile applications address the need of students to communicate with each other and with instructors. There are no easy solutions available to solve this problem.

In general creation of a new mobile application takes a lot of time energy and resources. It takes a team well versed in software development and testing. It takes a team that has access to and mastery of new technology. It takes PCs servers code management systems simulators integrated development environments IDE etc. Thus only a few large corporations have the people and resources to develop mobile apps for their use. And these corporations have not created any useful mobile app that addresses teaching needs testing needs registration needs user interaction needs automated remedial coursework determination etc.

Students often take tests and do not know how they have performed on the test or in which areas they need to improve. Quite often it is difficult for a student to determine how he can improve his test score. The student may know that he is weak in some subject but not know what to do with it or how to improve his skills. The student often does not have access to information that can help him do better in his tests if he retakes that test. The student is left to fend for himself and any study material or study guides he might need may not be easily available in the stores or even at school.

In view of the foregoing considerations it is clear that there is a need for a mobile based learning and testing system that provides automated test assignment automated class registrations and customized material delivery.

The present invention is directed to apparatus and methods of operation that are further described in the following Brief Description of the Drawings the Detailed Description of the Invention and the claims. Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention made with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The present invention provides a system for mobile based learning and testing that makes it possible for a user of a mobile device to take online courses on his mobile device take tests on his mobile device receive test results and remedial courses on the mobile device etc.

The present invention provides the system for mobile based learning and testing that provides automated test assignment automated class registrations and customized material delivery. Specifically based on a user profile such as a profile that indicates that the student is in the 11grade or that the student is 16 and yet to get a driver s license and user goals and preferences the system automated class registrations such as a registration for a SAT preparatory class a beginner driver s training class a advanced placement AP course training etc. It also assigns tests to the user such as a SAT mock test a mock test of a drivers education exam a AP chemistry mock test etc. The system built in accordance with the present invention also provides customized material for self paced study by the user wherein the customized material is delivered to the user in several forms such as a mobile version of the customized material delivered to the user s mobile phone as desired I and as necessary by the user an ebook version delivered to the user s mobile and his email address a physical book s delivered to the user s residence etc. The user profile and membership information is typically stored at the server and in the mobile device too optionally .

The downloadable educational mobile app of the mobile device comprises a group interactions manager that facilitates interactions with one or more people in a group of which the user is a member a test manager that facilitates taking tests and a test results manager that facilitates retrieval local storage and display of test results for the user. It also comprises the access manager module that provides access to education and test material available in the material repository of the server in addition to various features provided by the downloadable educational mobile app and the server . It implements security features and subscription management features.

The server comprises a membership manager that facilitates creation of user groups managing user groups subscription management and user preferences management. The server comprises a material repository that stores the educational and instructional material tests mock tests reference material for various courses tutorials etc. that the mobile device can retrieve. It also comprises a test grading manager responsible for receiving user inputs to tests termed test response sometimes and creating test results that are communicated to the user via the downloadable educational mobile app in the mobile device . The server also comprises a registration manager that is used to automatically register selected users for one or more tests and remedial coursework based at least in part on their performance on tests and their goals. For example based on test results for a user of the mobile device the registration manager automatically registers that user to remedial coursework sends remedial material from the material repository to the downloadable educational mobile app where it is stored and shown to the user as required registers the user to follow up activities such as a follow up mock test a tutorial and a follow up actual test repeat of the previous test taken for which the test result had been created .

The downloadable educational mobile app conducts an actual test with the help of the test manager for example for the user on the mobile device and collects a test response set from the user in the process. The test results manager presents a test result to the user wherein the test result is provided based on the actual test taken by the user and the test response set. For example the downloadable educational mobile app sends the test response set collected from the user to the server and obtains a test result that is presents with the help of the test results manager for example to the user of the mobile device . In general the downloadable educational mobile app receives displays to the user of the mobile device and saves a test completion certificate that it receives from the server or from an external server . The test completion certificate comprises a date a reference to the actual test and the test result. The downloadable educational mobile app automatically registers the user who has taken a test on the mobile device with the server for other follow up activities based on at least the test result.

The downloadable educational mobile app of the mobile device facilitates user interaction with the follow up activities that are provided to a user after the user takes a test. The follow up activities is one or more of the activities from the set comprising result review and display automatically scheduling follow up test automatically administering a follow up test automatically delivering remedial study material automatically mailing an appointment automatically delivering ebooks automatically delivering documents articles and papers and automatically facilitating retaking of the test. Other types of follow up activities such as retaking the test right away sending the test results to an educational institution etc. are also contemplated.

The downloadable educational mobile app of the mobile device conducts the follow up test for the user wherein the follow up test is one test from the set comprising a more advanced test a less advanced test a repeat test a complimentary test a comprehensive breadth coverage test and a narrow expertise test. Thus if the user takes a test and finds it to be very easy and does well on the test the user automatically is prompted to take a tougher test one that truly measures his capability better one this is more challenging than the first test in some ways. Similarly if the user takes the test and finds it to be very difficult and does not do well on the test the user automatically is prompted to take an easier test one that provides the user an easier test that the user is likely to do well on.

In one embodiment the downloadable educational mobile app in the mobile device facilitates conducting the actual test by displaying portions of the actual test on the mobile device while soliciting the test response set from the user. It collects the test response set from the user and sends it to a second mobile device associated with a second user for grading. The downloadable educational mobile app in the mobile device receives a test result from the second mobile device based upon a grading operation executed by the second user on the second mobile device . The downloadable educational mobile app in the mobile device presents the test result received to the user. In a related embodiment the second mobile device also comprises the downloadable educational mobile app which the user of the second mobile device employs to review the test response from the mobile device and to create the test results. Thus an authorized expert or a teacher of a online course etc. associated with a test receives a test response from the mobile device on his second mobile device reviews that test response received with the help of the downloadable educational mobile app in the second mobile device and creates a test result that is returned to the downloadable educational mobile app of the mobile device and also stored in the server . In one embodiment the authorized expert is a manager of a group such as all the registered students of an online mobile class in which the user of the mobile device is a member.

The downloadable educational mobile app provides preparatory material to the user prior to the actual test wherein the preparatory material comprises references to at least one of a relevant document a relevant book a specific relevant section in a book a study guide a tutorial a cheat sheet an example problem with an associated answer to the problem. The test result is computed by the test grading manager of the server based on the test response set received from the downloadable educational mobile app . The downloadable educational mobile app provides a question with at least one image as part of the actual test. The downloadable educational mobile app facilitates the making of a mark on the image displayed by the user. It processes the mark provided by the user and selectively communicates it to the server along with test response set provided by the user for the test. The mark made by the user comprises a point selected by the user on the image s displayed or a set of points selected by the user on at least one image in a set of images displayed to the user.

In administering tests on the mobile device the user is presented with several questions often one question at a time on a separate panel although multiple questions on a screen or panel are also provided optionally with an audio preamble asking the question a textual prompt and an image accompanying the question. Some questions require the user to select and highlight one or more points on the image presented and the downloadable educational mobile app facilitates selection by the user of these one or more points on the displayed image it also captures coordinates or other information related to the user selection of points. A visual indication is provided on the image where the user has made his selections such as a X mark a dot etc. . For example an image of the human anatomy is presented in a question of a test and the user is asked to point to the heart. The downloadable educational mobile app facilitates selection and high lighting of a section of the displayed image by a user employing a stylus a finger touch on a touch sensitive screen for example a joystick based selection etc. Similarly a user can be asked to point to a location on a topographical map and user input selections on the map is recorded by the downloadable educational mobile app .

In one embodiment the downloadable educational mobile app also interacts with a local communication circuitry to communicate with a local alternate user interaction device wherein the local alternate user interaction device is one of a TV a set top box a router a dock with display and keyboard and a personal computer. The downloadable educational mobile app communicates a current question for display on the local alternate user interaction device . It receives user inputs for the current question and for subsequent questions too as the user provides them and stores it for processing and subsequent communication to the server . The downloadable educational mobile app causes the display of the questions of the questionnaire audio guided activities for training a student tutorials practice exercises etc. collectively referred to as interactive media sometimes on the local alternate user interaction device . Thus interactive media in one embodiment is one or more of mock tests the actual test the test result and follow up activities for example. The downloadable educational mobile app collects stores and communicates to the server or to an external server user inputs sometimes referred to as an external device user inputs provided by the user employing the local alternate user interaction device .

The downloadable educational mobile app is able to manage the display of certain types of interactive media on the other local devices in vicinity for example such as a TV a DVD player a stereo system which are generically referred to as local alternate user interaction device . Even a user s a PC laptop may be used to display certain types of content to the user as part of a coursework tutorial lesson training or test. Managing and configuring the flow of appropriate type of training material or content to the local alternate user interaction device is the responsibility of the downloadable educational mobile app and the server . For some types of content within a specific test or training material in a training session such as a training video in high definition the downloadable educational mobile app employs a high definition TV in its vicinity one that it discovers or one that the user configures for display by user while it coordinates delivery of such content to that high definition TV. Within the same test other types of content such as multiple choice questions are displayed to the user on the mobile device by the downloadable educational mobile app . A high definition MPEG 4 movie of a training video that is in large format which is overkill in the case of a small mobile device the downloadable educational mobile app advises the user to configure a PC laptop a gaming console connected to a big HD TV for example a router connected to a PC laptop or a set top box connected to a TV to receive that high definition MPEG 4 movie. An accompanying multiple choice question component is simultaneously received and presented to the user by the downloadable educational mobile app .

The access manager module facilitates access of the local alternate user interaction device as necessary and it also helps configure such devices and communication means to access them from the server or the external server as necessary.

In one embodiment the downloadable educational mobile app with the help of the test manager administers a first test to a user automatically processes a user data provided by the user in response to the first test to compute a first test results employing the test results manager . It then automatically determines remedial activities that need to be provided to the user based on the first test results. It presents a custom user material associated with the remedial activities to the user on the mobile device . The custom user material is retrieved from the material repository of the server . It can also retrieve such custom user material from an external system communicatively coupled to the mobile device or the server . In one embodiment the server determines what needs to be included in the custom user material employing user preferences available in the membership manager user registration information available in the registration manager test results from test taken by the user user test goals expressed by the user in registration information available via the registration manager etc. In another the downloadable educational mobile app determines what needs to be included in the custom user material.

In general the downloadable educational mobile app administers the remedial activities for the user on the mobile device wherein the remedial activities comprise undertaking a set of remedial online classes viewing a tutorial session reviewing a portion of an ebook for study reading a personalized teaching material working through workbook exercises viewing a video demonstration and taking a subsequent mock test. The remedial activities are determined by the server in one embodiment and by the downloadable educational mobile app in another. In a different embodiment the remedial activities are determined by a teacher of a course or an expert such as a counselor via the second mobile device or via the PC laptop communicatively coupled to the server via Internet .

The mobile device and the server are communicatively coupled over Internet typically although a private network a cellular network a dedicated network a local area network a wide area network a satellite network and a broadband network are also contemplated. The mobile device and the local alternative user interaction device communicate over WiFi 802.11 variants or bluetooth. Other forms of local communication such as InfraRed IR firewire serial line communications HDMI WiMAX and cellular are also contemplated.

In general the downloadable educational mobile app facilitates collection of a test response set from the user wherein the test response set comprises user answers to a plurality of questions of the actual test or a mock test presented to the user. The user s answers are provided by the user employing a recorded audio format a textual data entry format a digital image format or a combination of these formats. Thus an answer to one question in the actual test can require the user to input text and the user s text input is noted and processed saved as necessary the answer to a second question may require the user to record his answer providing an audio input and the downloadable educational mobile app facilitates recording of audio by the user. Similarly taking a digital photo to create a digital image input is also facilitated. In addition the user can mark one or more sections to highlight them of the digital photo taken by him as part of an answer to a question. The downloadable educational mobile app communicates the test response to the server . The test response often is a complete collection of all the answers to all the questions of a test although sending of partial collections are also supported including all the text inputs audio inputs or references thereof digital photos provided or references thereof etc. It is sent to the server for storage automated analysis and the determination of follow up activities for example.

In general the downloadable educational mobile app automatically highlights the relevant sections in at least one associated ebook that is relevant for a test such as a recommended physics text book for a physics test. Typically such ebooks papers documents and reference materials in general are provided by the server or known to the server. These reference material are what the user is expected to study as part of the preparation for a test that is to be administered. For example if a first test is taken by a user on his mobile device wherein the test manager of the downloadable educational mobile app facilitates taking of the test by the user the reference material is made available to the user by the downloadable educational mobile app . A reference material is where the user can find the relevant answers to one or more questions included in the first test taken by the user. After the first test is taken by a user administered by the downloadable educational mobile app the test results are provided and in addition with the help of the test results manager relevant sections pages paragraphs lines are highlighted each with a different color code pages green paragraphs yellow lines in red for example in the reference material to help the user determine where he went wrong or where he was right and what answers had been expected. The downloadable educational mobile app highlights sections pages paragraphs lines etc . where the answers to any question in a given test can be found. For example for a given test the scope of which is covered by an ebook that is recommended for that test the downloadable educational mobile app highlights sections pages paragraphs line numbers etc. that are relevant for each question or sections that contain the answers or a solution to each question in the test. The ebook is currently available in the mobile device or automatically delivered to the mobile device from the server based on the first test results. In general the test results manager keeps tracks of test results and reference material for those tests and is able to map questions on a test with the relevant sections where corresponding answers can be found in the reference materials such as ebooks websites articles documents spreadsheets tables etc. .

In particular the downloadable educational mobile app makes it possible to highlight sections of a reference material ebook paper document etc. that contain answers to questions that the user had not answered or had answered wrong on the test. Such relevant sections that are highlighted often correspond to a question in the first test that the user failed to answer adequately. By providing such feedback to a user the downloadable educational mobile app makes it possible for a user to review his mistakes and get the answers right the next time he takes the test same one or a different one .

In one embodiment the downloadable educational mobile app in the mobile device receives a notification from the server wherein the notification comprises one of a reference and a link to a test that has been scheduled or a lesson to be reviewed by the user. In response the downloadable educational mobile app retrieves the test that has been scheduled or the lesson to be reviewed from the server processes it automatically displays it to the user and monitors user response. While taking the test the user can enter data in input fields such as text entry boxes make selection on multiple choice prompts inclusive or exclusive set of multiple choices are displayed provide audio recording provide digital photo images record video and send them to the server for storage or processing or even the external server .

In general the user takes a test on the mobile device or on website associated with the server alternately and based on the results of that test the user is automatically assigned a different test to take or a test is scheduled for him automatically by the server based on user goals user preferences test results for prior tests etc. . For example if the user does well scores above a threshold or scores well in some areas of the test and not well in others areas of a test in some areas of a test then the subsequent test may be assigned to test him further on the areas where the user did well on a prior test. Alternately the subsequent test may be assigned to test him further on the areas where the user did not do so well based on parameters and thresholds set for that user or based on default thresholds such thresholds configured on the server .

In addition to assigning a subsequent test selectively to a user the system automatically assigns further study guides additional lessons guided activities class schedules automatic registration into one or more classes and or remedial course registrations.

In one embodiment the system delivers a certificate to the user on his mobile device and on his registered email account known to the server wherein the certificate certifies that the user took that test and it optionally also provides a transcript of scores for the test s taken by that user in a certain time frame. In a related embodiment the system delivers books to the user based on the test results. It also enables sharing of the test results with other users or with external servers. For example the external server may be associated with a department of motor vehicles or with an educational institution or with a business organization.

The user can share the results of the tests taken by him with the whole group in which he is a member. The user of the system can also take the test partially on a PC laptop and partially on the mobile device of the user such as a PDA or on other devices in proximity to the mobile device to which the user has access such as a cellular mobile phone a tablet etc.

During the administration of a test by the downloadable educational mobile app the user can selectively access from the server for example and play instructional material that will enhance his comprehensions of the subject matter the questions being asked on the test or on the test taking methods and techniques involved.

The system makes it possible for a user to take tests that are a pre requirement for a class at an educational institution. It provides reading material preparatory material in general to the user prior to the test and it provides references to specific books chapters in a book sections of chapters that the user is likely to be tested on. In addition after taking the test the system highlights the sections in books chapters and sections of books where the user can find the relevant answers to the questions in a test and it also marks appropriate sections of a book or document for questions where the user test taker committed a mistake on the text or got the answer wrong .

The system provides images for maps of topography blue prints or human body for example that a user can make browse and make marks on such as by selecting a point on that image or marking one or more points on the image with an x cross mark . For example using a stylus or a touch sensitive user interface the user can mark points items on an image displayed. Other means are also contemplated such as use of a joystick and buttons.

The system facilitates automatic delivery of books ebooks or physical printed books reading material instructional material etc. to the user based on the test results of a test taken by the user on the mobile device or alternately on the PC laptop or a combination thereof . Such delivery is coordinated managed by the server based on registration of the user to various courses tutorials and tests registration being managed by the registration manager .

The system serves as a mobile based learning and testing solution for children school age children for example wherein children can learn using audio guided activities ebooks provided to them tests administered to them and by remedial instructions provided to them following those tests. In addition a schedule of instructions and tests is created for a student automatically as required based on their age preferences and performance on previous test and other related information . Prior to the taking of a test the user if provided mock tests typically.

In general children are grouped into interaction groups and they can interact with each other share assignments completed share data collected etc. Students can collaboratively complete assignments. The collaboration on projects is managed by the membership manager on the server side and by the individual downloadable educational mobile app on the mobile devices such as of the corresponding users. In one embodiment children participating on a collaborative project can make observations that are stored and shared with the groups wherein the individual observations are each in the form of recorded audio digital photos and textual inputs. A completed project is generated by the server when requested by any user of the collaborative project group formation of such a group is managed by the membership manager . In addition a completed project report can be sent for grading by a teacher or advisor wherein the test grading manager facilitates grading by a teacher or advisor associated with that collaborative project group.

In general the server stores a plurality of educational materials lessons course works tests mock tests practice exercises tutorials etc. managed by the material repository . Each of the plurality of educational materials being used for a different need by a user of the mobile device . An educational materials upload module not shown in the server is used to upload new educational materials by a manager or privileged user. Additionally educational materials upload may require the use of the PC laptop or the external server . The server then processes these educational materials upload and creates storage components in the material repository as appropriate and also creates tables and related data such as configuration preferences control blocks etc. in the database associated.

The downloadable education mobile app in the mobile device presents each of the plurality of education material when requested by a user from a mobile device or when they are pushed delivered by the server as required.

For example in one embodiment targeted towards high school students where students taking a SAT exam can be registered the downloadable education mobile app requires the user to be in a group where the entire group takes a same training course share the same similar training material and mock tests. The server prompts the user for his agent id and password during a login and then allows the user of the mobile device to access training materials mock tests etc. as per a user specific schedule and also in an adhoc manner. The server also based on the user needs and preferences and a schedule created with the consent of the user provides training material and tutorials. It also creates an appropriate user profile and maintains it over the duration of user involvement. The users can share their test results with each other share questions seek clarifications from each other and from their instructors teachers in the group etc.

In one embodiment the server stores a plurality coursework for a plurality of certifications wherein the coursework are organized by certifications for which they are relevant. When a user registers for a certification that user gets a downloadable educational mobile app for his mobile device . Then the server lets the user get test materials training materials tutorials notification for online classes etc. whenever the user wants them at his convenience. The server also creates a schedule of activities for that user and communicates it to the downloadable educational mobile app in the mobile device . The downloadable educational mobile app based on that schedule alerts the user retrieves relevant documents tests etc. for the user to review or practice and then displays them to the user. In the case of mock tests it sends the collected user responses to the server for grading and the retrieval of test results.

The server presents to the mobile device an appropriate one of the plurality of educational materials when requested by a user. For example when the user using the downloadable educational mobile app of the mobile device selects one reading material such as an ebook from a list of available ebook presented to the user the appropriate associated ebook is given by the server to the downloadable educational mobile app of the mobile device which then processes it and displays a set of screens based on the display needs of the ebook. Similarly if a notification is sent from the server to the downloadable educational mobile app of the mobile device the downloadable educational mobile app wakes up typically having waited for the notification for example by waiting on a port and processes a reference link to the associated ebook or reading material and the downloadable educational mobile app retrieves it from the server and then presents them to the user via screens on the mobile device .

In one embodiment the downloadable educational mobile app of the mobile device receives a test for a user wherein the test comprises a video section that the downloadable educational mobile app displays on the HD TV while displaying a multiple choice component of the questions of the test on the mobile device that solicits user inputs and user interactions in addition to those interactions solicited on the HDTV . In a related embodiment a user can complete a first portion of a lesson for an online course for example on the mobile device employing the downloadable educational mobile app while completing a second portion on the user s laptop computer employing webpages provided by the server or employing a mobile client in the user s laptop computer that is capable of processing and displaying the second portion and accepting user inputs associated with it and communicating it back to the server .

In one embodiment the mobile device is a tablet capable of interacting with a TV in a room and the downloadable educational mobile app in the tablet is able to communicate its device capabilities to the server to retrieve versions of content such as educational material tests tutorials that are appropriate to the device capabilities of the tablet. The server maintains several different versions of content and provides the appropriate version to the tablet one that is compatible and provides a better user experience. In addition the server is capable of translating or transcoding content to better suit the device capabilities. For example if the server determines that it does not yet have a required version of a content that is more appropriate to the capabilities of the tablet it retrieves a generic version of the same content and on the fly transcodes changes it to make it more compaticle as necessary it to make it more compatible with the tablet before delivering it to the tablet .

At a next block the a downloadable educational mobile app provides a mock test to the user based at least on a user request or a user specific schedule. For example the user may request a mock test to prepare for a standardized test. Alternately the user may have a schedule assigned by an adviser or as part of a program coursework . At a next block the downloadable educational mobile app administers an actual test wherein the user of the mobile device is presented with one or more screens of questions as part of that the test and the user provides inputs as prompted. Inputs can be in the form of text input recorded audio digital photo streaming video etc. The downloadable educational mobile app in the mobile device solicits answers to questions presented in the actual test wherein the answers are collected as a test response and processed to generate a test result. In one embodiment such processing occurs in the mobile device and in another the processing occurs at the server .

At a next block the downloadable educational mobile app shows the test result to the user wherein the test results are generated based on the answers to the actual test administered to the user. Then at a next block the downloadable educational mobile app receives displays to the user and saves locally a test completion certificate wherein the test completion certificate comprises a date a reference to the actual test and the test result. Then at a next block the downloadable educational mobile app registers the user automatically with the server for other follow up activities based on at least the test result. Then at a next end block the processing terminates.

In one embodiment the exemplary operation of the system for mobile based learning and testing further comprises the additional step of selecting by the downloadable educational mobile app at least one follow up activity as a target set of activities for the user from the set of follow up activities comprising result review and display automatically scheduling a first follow up test automatically administering the first follow up test automatically delivering remedial study material automatically mailing an appointment automatically delivering ebooks automatically delivering documents articles and papers and automatically facilitating retaking of the test. The method also includes the step of executing by the downloadable educational mobile app the target set of activities for the user on the mobile device . The first follow up test comprises one test from the set comprising a more advanced test a less advanced test a repeat test a complimentary test a comprehensive breadth coverage test and a narrow expertise test. In a related embodiment the exemplary operation also includes sending to the downloadable educational mobile app by the server a preparatory material for the user prior to conducting the actual test wherein the preparatory material comprises references to at least one of a relevant document a relevant book a specific relevant section in a book a study guide a tutorial a cheat sheet an example problem with an associated answer to the problem. The preparatory material helps a user learn new concepts practice lessons learnt get better at answering questions and get better at time management. In fact the downloadable educational mobile app keeps track of time taken to complete a test and warns the user on how much time is left when a test is taken periodically all through the test.

In one embodiment the downloadable educational mobile app also executes the step of determining automatically the remedial activities that is provided to the user. This determination is made based at least on the on the first test results and often based also on the goals of the user the type of tests the user is taking the level of achievement on the test by the user the schedule commitments of the user and other user preferences.

In a related the downloadable educational mobile app also sends receives a custom user material associated with the remedial activities. The server sends the custom user material associated with the remedial activities after it retrieves it from a local storage repository database or from an external server communicatively coupled to the mobile device or the server.

The mobile device comprises the downloadable educational mobile app storage components and a local communication circuitry . The functionality of the downloadable educational mobile app is similar to the functionality of the downloadable educational mobile app in . Its components test manager test results manager group interactions manager and access manager module comprise features similar to those described above for corresponding components in the system of .

The server also comprise a registration manager used to register users such as students and teachers in classes tutorials training sessions tests and mock tests. The test grading manager facilitates grading of tests and mock tests. It helps create test results from user s test response received. The membership manager registers users to the educational and testing services provided by the for mobile learning and testing system and to subscriptions for these educational and testing services. It also facilitates forming user groups and managing such user groups. It supports student groups teacher groups advisor groups class groups observers of groups etc.

The server employs the group interaction management component to facilitate user interactions when a one of the plurality of users employing a corresponding one of the plurality of mobile devices sends a message to one of more of the others of the plurality of mobile devices. The message comprises one or more of a text message component a recorded voice message a digital image and a reference to a first test a course material a schedule for a test and a test result. The server provides a mock test to the downloadable educational mobile app of one of the plurality of mobile devices based at least on a user request from a corresponding one of the plurality of users or based on a user specific schedule for that user. The user can take the mock test more than once and the server times the duration taken and the accuracy of the answers provided. The user can also take several different versions of the mock test for test taking practice. The server also provides an actual test to the downloadable educational mobile app of one of the plurality of mobile devices based at least on a user request from the corresponding one of the plurality of users or based on a user specific schedule for that user.

The server automatically computes a test result when it receives a user data for the actual test or even a mock test in one related embodiment from the downloadable educational mobile app associated with the one of the plurality of mobile devices . The server automatically communicates the test result to the downloadable educational mobile app associated with the one of the plurality of mobile devices . The server also automatically communicates a test completion certificate to the downloadable educational mobile app associated with the one of the plurality of mobile devices wherein the test completion certificate comprises a date a reference to the actual test and the test result. In addition the server automatically registers that user for other follow up activities based on at least the test result for a test taken by the user.

The server selects at least one follow up activity as a target set of activities for a user who has taken a test and created a test result. The target set of activities are selected from the set of follow up activities comprising result review and display automatically scheduling a first follow up test automatically administering the first follow up test automatically delivering remedial study material automatically mailing an appointment automatically delivering ebooks automatically delivering documents articles and papers and automatically facilitating retaking of the test. The server communicates information regarding the target set of activities to the user via the downloadable educational mobile app .

The server of sends a follow up test to the user after receiving the user data for the actual test from the downloadable educational mobile app associated with the one of the plurality of mobile devices . The follow up test comprises one test from the set comprising a more advanced test a less advanced test a repeat test a complimentary test a comprehensive breadth coverage test and a narrow expertise test.

The server sends to the downloadable educational mobile app associated with the one of the plurality of mobile devices a preparatory material to the corresponding user prior to conducting the actual test by that user. The preparatory material comprises references to at least one of a relevant document a relevant book a specific relevant section in a book a study guide a tutorial a cheat sheet an example problem with an associated answer to the problem.

In one embodiment the server also determines automatically a remedial activities a set of activities specifically for that user that is provided to that user based on the first test results taken by the user. The server sends a custom user material associated with the remedial activities wherein the server retrieves it from a local storage repository or database or from an external server communicatively coupled to the mobile device or the server .

In one embodiment the server also comprises a billing module not shown that automatically charges a user such as for example by means of a credit card associated with the user or an account setup by the user for test registrations test administration charges charges for delivering ebooks study guides preparatory materials remedial materials etc.

In one embodiment the test mock test or actual test is provided to the downloadable educational mobile app as an XML file and it comprises for example a welcome information and several questions one question to be displayed per screen each question requiring inputs from the user and presenting user data input prompts. It also provides vendor information that a downloadable educational mobile app can display selectively such as when a user activates an About button or menu item provided in a first welcome page presented to the user by the downloadable educational mobile app . A section of the XML file provides a company name description of the downloadable educational mobile app that can process it and display it a creation date a type associated with the downloadable educational mobile app an identification for the downloadable educational mobile app and a use case id for identifying a server side logic behavior to influence server side processing.

In one embodiment a section of the XML test document for each question specifies some particulars of a data input needs and details of the question. It provides an audio preamble link to an audio file stored at the server that the downloadable educational mobile app retrieves and plays when the corresponding screen is presented to the user. It also specifies a link reference to an image that is displayed to the user in the same screen. In addition a textual supplementary information for clarifications to the current question for example and an audio supplementary information are also provided for each question in the test. Thus each question in the XML file comprises information on display items such as a textual display component an image display component an audio recording playback component a table display component a button display component a map display component a GPS coordinates display component and a screen navigation component for navigating between the plurality of questions or associated screens . In addition multiple choice selections are supported for each question as necessary that the downloadable educational mobile app presents as a set of radio buttons to the user. The user selection can be INCLUSIVE or EXCLUSIVE. In addition instead of radio buttons a drop down box with multiple selection capabilities is employed for some embodiments.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the terms user input components and UI form elements as may be used herein include all types of user input means typically used in dialog boxes and UI screens where data entry by a user is facilitated. The terms mobile application or downloadable educational mobile app includes downloadable java applications J2ME based applications iPhone mobile apps that are coded in Object C native mobile apps for Windows mobile coded in C or other languages mobile apps for Android platforms etc. Although the invention is described in terms of downloadable educational mobile app it must be clear that it can be easily applicable to pre installed applications in devices and to logic embedded in hardware chips such as ASIC chips or DSP chips .

Although the tests are formatted as an XML document file other formats are contemplated including a binary format a zip format etc.

Although the present invention has been described in terms of mobile device it must be clear that the present invention covers PDAs cellular phones VOIP phones tablets such as iPAD and other hand held devices such as iPOD MP3 players DVD players TV remotes etc.

Although the present invention has been described in terms of user data sent from mobile client to a server where audio recorded on the mobile device and photo captured on the mobile device are communicated as part of the user data it must be clear that the present invention also applies to other types of data that can be part of a user inputs provided by a user such as text video streams charts graphs tables html content etc.

The present invention has also been described above with the aid of method steps illustrating the performance of specified functions and relationships thereof The boundaries and sequence of these functional building blocks and method steps have been arbitrarily defined herein for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries and sequences can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships are appropriately performed. Any such alternate boundaries or sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

The present invention has been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the performance of certain significant functions. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined for convenience of description. Alternate boundaries could be defined as long as the certain significant functions are appropriately performed Similarly flow diagram blocks may also have been arbitrarily defined herein to illustrate certain significant functionality. To the extent used the flow diagram block boundaries and sequence could have been defined otherwise and still perform the certain significant functionality. Such alternate definitions of both functional building blocks and flow diagram blocks and sequences are thus within the scope and spirit of the claimed invention.

One of average skill in the art will also recognize that the functional building blocks and other illustrative blocks modules and components herein can be implemented as illustrated or by discrete components application specific integrated circuits processors executing appropriate software and the like or any combination thereof.

Moreover although described in detail for purposes of clarity and understanding by way of the aforementioned embodiments the present invention is not limited to such embodiments. It will be obvious to one of average skill in the art that various changes and modifications may be practiced within the spirit and scope of the invention as limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

