---

title: Secured transaction system
abstract: The present invention relates to a secured transaction system. In one embodiment, a mobile transaction processing agent system includes a communication module configured to receive a secured transaction description from a mobile client device or an encrypted transaction description from a point-of-sale (POS) device, wherein the secured transaction description is in the form of a bar code generated by the mobile client device, an authentication module configured to decode the secured transaction description and verify the secured transaction description is valid based on the mobile client device or the point-of-sale device, and a transaction processing module configured to process the transaction in accordance with the secured transaction description.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501773&OS=09501773&RS=09501773
owner: 
number: 09501773
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110131
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application No. 61 300 679 A Secured Transaction System filed Feb. 2 2010. The aforementioned United States application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to the field of electronic commerce. In particular the present invention relates to systems and methods for handling secured transactions.

In commerce there are numerous ways for buyers and sellers to exchange money for goods and services. One commonly used conventional method is that a buyer pays cash to a seller. There are several problems with this payment method. First if a transaction is large it would be hard for both the buyer and seller to handle a large amount of cash for example for transactions over a few thousand dollars. Besides the need to provide exact changes doing transactions in cash would require more efforts in book keeping for both buyers and sellers. In addition the parties may be exposed to the risk of counterfeiting as well as theft or robbery.

Another commonly used conventional method is that the buyer writes a check to the seller. However this method of payment also has several drawbacks. First it is inconvenient for the buyer to carry a check around and it is also inconvenient for the seller to deposit the check to a bank every time he receives a check. In addition the buyer may be concerned with the risk of lost checks and the seller may be exposed to the risk of counterfeit checks. If a check has bounced which means insufficient fund in the buyer s bank it may cost additional money and effort for both the buyer and seller to fix the problem.

Yet another commonly used conventional method is that the buyer pays with a credit or debit card. However there are numerous problems associated with this payment method. To the buyer it is inconvenient to carry multiple cards and many merchants do not accept credit cards if the transaction amount is relatively small such as less than 20. In addition if the credit cards are lost or stolen it would cause stress and effort for the card holder to inform the issuing bank and have the cards replaced and it would cost the issuing bank to create and mail a replacement card to the card holder. Furthermore the credit debit card numbers are static which do not change within their corresponding expiration dates. Such static card numbers may be stolen during online transactions without card owner s knowledge. Furthermore a record breach at merchant sites or at issuing banks would create tremendous financial risks to the card holders merchants and or the issuing banks.

Therefore there is a need for systems and methods that can address the problems of the conventional payment methods and assist buyers and sellers doing transactions in electronic commerce.

The present invention relates to a secured transaction system. In one embodiment a mobile client device includes a mobile client device includes a user interface configured to enable a user to select a transaction type and collect a user pin number a processor configured to generate a secured transaction description using the transaction type and the user pin number wherein the secured transaction description includes issuer ID account ID merchant ID password transaction amount and transaction time stamp and the processor is further configured to transmit the secured transaction description to a mobile processing agent for processing and receive a transaction record from the mobile transaction processing agent and a memory configured to store the transaction record in the mobile client device.

In another embodiment a computer implemented method for generating a transaction from a mobile client device includes selecting a transaction type collecting a user pin number generating a secured transaction description dynamically using the transaction type and the user pin number wherein the secured transaction description includes issuer ID account ID merchant ID password transaction amount and transaction time stamp and transmitting the secured transaction description to a mobile transaction processing agent for processing.

In yet another embodiment a point of sale POS system includes an input module configured to receive a transaction description from a mobile client device an encryption engine configured to generate an encrypted transaction description using the transaction description from the mobile client device and a communication module configured to transmit the encrypted transaction description for processing.

In yet another embodiment a computer implemented method for processing secured transactions includes receiving a transaction description from a mobile client device generating an encrypted transaction description using the transaction description from the mobile client device and transmitting the encrypted transaction description for processing.

In yet another embodiment a mobile transaction processing agent system includes a communication module configured to receive a secured transaction description from a mobile client device or an encrypted transaction description from a point of sale POS device wherein the secured transaction description is in the form of a bar code generated by the mobile client device an authentication module configured to decode the secured transaction description and verify the secured transaction description is valid based on the mobile client device or the point of sale device and a transaction processing module configured to process the transaction in accordance with the secured transaction description.

In yet another embodiment a computer implemented method for processing secured transactions includes receiving a payment request wherein the payment request includes a transaction description verifying payer account information in association with the payment request processing the payment request upon verifying the payer account information receiving a digital signature from the payer adjusting the payer account with the transaction amount upon authenticating the transaction with the received digital signature and sending a transaction receipt to the payer.

Method and system are provided for handling secured transactions. The following descriptions are presented to enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the invention. Descriptions of specific embodiments and applications are provided only as examples. Various modifications and combinations of the examples described herein will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the general principles defined herein may be applied to other examples and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the examples described and shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

Some portions of the detailed description that follows are presented in terms of flowcharts logic blocks and other symbolic representations of operations on information that can be performed on a computer system. A procedure computer executed step logic block process etc. is here conceived to be a self consistent sequence of one or more steps or instructions leading to a desired result. The steps are those utilizing physical manipulations of physical quantities. These quantities can take the form of electrical magnetic or radio signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a computer system. These signals may be referred to at times as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. Each step may be performed by hardware software firmware or combinations thereof.

In block based on the information preinstalled in the mobile device and the information entered by the user during the transaction such as the pin number and the transaction amount the mobile device generates a secured transaction description dynamically. The secured transaction description may include issuer ID account ID user password merchant ID transaction amount and transaction time stamp . The secured transaction description may be in the form of a scrambled bar code or in the form of a scrambled two dimensional pattern containing the transaction information described above.

According to embodiments of the present invention the account ID field is dynamic and scrambled and the MTPA has the keys to decrypt the scrambled account ID . The account ID may be updated according to a predetermined period of time such as every day every week or randomly. The updating field value may like updating enigma code which makes it harder to crack by hackers. In the event the mobile client device is lost or the account ID is breached the account ID may be easier to change for example by a mobile network operator. The transaction time stamp incorporates the time of the transaction and facilitates record keeping. Besides this field makes all transaction IDs also referred to as transaction description unique and different from each other. This is because each end user may only make one transaction at any given place and time.

In block the mobile device transmits the secured transaction description to the MTPA server. According to various implementations of the present invention the transmission of the secured transaction description may be carried out wirelessly from the mobile device to the MTPA servers. Alternatively the transmission of the secured transaction description may be done via the POS device and then transmitted through a wired network or wirelessly from the POS device to the MTPA servers. In block upon verification and approval of the transaction by the MTPA servers the mobile device receives an acknowledgement of the transaction from the MTPA servers. The acknowledgement may include a confirmation number transaction amount time and date of the transaction name of the seller and remaining balance on the M cash account. Similar to block the mobile device may receive the acknowledgement wirelessly from the MTPA servers or from the MTPA servers via the POS device. In block the mobile device stores a record of the transaction either on the device or sending the record to a remote folder specified by the user.

In this implementation the secured transaction description is a scrambled bar code that includes information of issuer ID account ID user password merchant ID transaction amount and time stamp . Note that this secured transaction description is generated dynamically as opposed to a static description of transaction information as in the cases of credit card transactions or transactions involving checks. The secured transaction description is unique not only because it includes the user password in addition to the issuer ID account ID and merchant ID it also includes the transaction amount which typically varies based on the item being purchases and the time stamp which changes constantly. One of the benefits of the secured transaction description over the conventional transaction description is that it may be used only once and the risk of this information being stolen is significantly reduced. Unlike credit card information and bank account information shown on a check once they are stolen they may be used repeatedly by criminals.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention the secured transaction description may further include the global positioning system GPS location of the mobile client device which further contributes to the security of the transaction. In this case if the criminals do not have or do not know the GPS location of the mobile client device they would not be able to generate the secured transaction description and thus would not be able to complete any fraudulent transaction. According to embodiments of the present invention location based fraud detection may be implemented using mobile client device location tracking or GPS technologies. In one implementation every mobile payment may be monitored by comparing the transaction location for example GPS terminal location against the location of the mobile client device which may be obtained for example by a mobile network operator through mobile client location tracking technologies. In this approach the POS ID may be forwarded to MTPA along with the transaction ID and the mobile client location may be obtained from the mobile network operator for comparison. When there is a mismatch a fraud alert will be generated and the transaction is declined.

In screen a transaction acknowledgment is received by the mobile client device. In this particular example the transaction acknowledgement includes information about the user s account such as the original balance the last payment amount and the remaining balance. The mobile device may be configured to store a record of the transaction or wirelessly transmit this record to a remote storage location. Screen corresponds to the functions performed in blocks and of .

Screens and implement the block where the mobile device requests the user to enter a password and a masked password is entered by the user. In screen a secured transaction description is generated by the mobile client device which corresponds to the function performed in block of . The secured transaction description may be read from the mobile client device or be transmitted from the mobile client device in accordance with the function performed in block of .

In this implementation the secured transaction description is a scrambled multi dimensional bit map that includes information of issuer ID account ID user password merchant ID transaction amount time stamp and GPS location . Note that this secured transaction description is generated dynamically as opposed to a static description of transaction information as in the cases of credit card transactions or transactions involving checks. The secured transaction description is unique not only because it includes the user password in addition to the issuer ID account ID and merchant ID it also includes the transaction amount which typically varies based on the item being purchases the time stamp which changes constantly and the GPS location of the mobile device which may also change. One of the benefits of the secured transaction description over the conventional transaction description is that it may be used only once and the risk of this information being stolen is significantly reduced. Unlike credit card information and bank account information shown on a check once they are stolen they may be used repeatedly by criminals.

In screen a transaction acknowledgment is received by the mobile client device. In this particular example the transaction acknowledgement includes a list of items purchased at the Happy Shopping Market the subtotal amount of the purchase the sales tax and the total amount of the purchase. The mobile device may be configured to store a record or the transaction or wirelessly transmit this record to a remote storage location. Screen corresponds to the functions performed in blocks and of .

There are numerous advantages associated with the transaction processing system described in . One advantage is that an active mobile client device is a secured ID device for authentication purposes. This is because an active mobile client device is most likely to have a unique phone number and a unique user. Mobile client devices are ubiquitous and have the largest user base among all electronic devices. They are mostly likely to be always on always connected and always with the users. Mobile client devices may be configured to work with Short Message Service SMS real time feedback for monitoring account activities. Moreover mobile client devices may be configured to provide location based fraud detection using triangular cell positioning or GPS technologies and they can implement strong security features such as two or three factor authentication.

In addition an active mobile client device offers dynamic account ID that may be used to guard against fraud from credit debit transaction record breach. For example mobile client devices can store credit debit account ID that is provisioned over the air by a mobile network operator with security protocol guarding confidentiality and various update algorithm applied regular random or situation based . Mobile client devices may be configured to scramble credit debit account ID with random numbers and or time stamps. Furthermore Mobile client devices may be configured to apply security protocols such as random number generator message authentication code MAC digital signature public key infrastructure PKI etc. which add additional security in the authentication process.

According to embodiments of the present invention the UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Card may be implemented as a smart card used in mobile terminals in GSM and UMTS networks. The UICC ensures the integrity and security of all kinds of personal data and it typically holds a few hundred kilobytes. In 2G networks the SIM card and SIM application are bound together so that a SIM Card could mean the physical card or any physical card with the SIM application. In 3G networks applications are run on a UICC card. The UICC smart card includes a CPU ROM RAM EEPROM and I O circuits. The use and content of the card may be protected by use of PIN codes. One code PIN can be defined to control normal use of the phone. Another code PIN can be set to allow the use of special functions like limiting outbound telephone calls to a list of numbers . PUKE and PUK may be used to reset PIN and PIN respectively. The integration of the ETSI framework and the Application management framework of Global Platform is standardized in the UICC configuration.

According to embodiments of the present invention an acquirer or acquiring bank is a member of a card association for example MasterCard and or Visa which maintains merchant relationships and receives all bankcard transactions from the merchant. In a credit card transaction the acquirer is the entity that receives an authorization request from its merchant accepting the card as a form of payment and forwards it through various authorization networks to the Issuing Bank Issuer . The Issuer determines whether to approve or decline the sale since they are the entities actually extending credit to their cardholders. An acquiring bank or acquirer is the bank or financial institution that accepts payments for the products or services on behalf of a merchant. The term acquirer indicates that the bank accepts or acquires transactions performed using a credit card issued by a bank other than itself. According to embodiments of the present invention an issuing bank is a bank that offers card association branded payment cards directly to consumers. In the case of credit cards the issuing bank extends a line of credit to the consumer. Liability for non payment is then shared by the issuing bank and the acquiring bank according to rules established by the card association brand.

According to embodiments of the present invention the POS device may secure the transaction ID using a secure socket layer SSL protocol or using a Derived Unique Key Per Transaction DUKPT key management scheme. Note that the Secure Sockets Layer SSL and the Transport Layer Security TLS are cryptographic protocols that provide security for communications over networks such as the Internet. TLS and SSL encrypt the segments of network connections at the Transport Layer end to end. Several versions of the protocols are in use in applications like web browsing electronic mail Internet faxing instant messaging and voice over IP VoIP .

In addition DUKPT is a key management scheme in which for every transaction a unique key is used which is derived from a fixed key. Therefore if a derived key is compromised future and past transaction data are still protected since the next or prior keys cannot be determined easily. DUKPT allows the processing of the encryption to be moved away from the devices that hold the shared secret. The encryption is done with a derived key which is not re used after the transaction. DUKPT is used to encrypt electronic commerce transactions. While it can be used to protect information between two companies or banks it is typically used to encrypt PIN information acquired by Point Of Sale POS devices.

The DUKPT scheme enables both originating and receiving parties to be in agreement as to the key being used for a given transaction. Each transaction will have a distinct key from all other transactions except by coincidence. If a present key is compromised past and future keys and thus the transactional data encrypted under them remain uncompromised. Each device generates a different key sequence. Originators and receivers of encrypted messages do not have to perform an interactive key agreement protocol beforehand.

In block the acquirer server uses an issuer ID embedded in the transaction ID to route the transaction via the MTPA server to the issuer server for authorization. In one approach the Acquirer server appends its own Acquirer ID with the transaction ID and forwards it to the MTPA server or other processing agents. The routing may use a wide area network WAN with a variety of security schemes such as the Internet Protocol Security IPsec the Triple Data Encryption Standard 3DES or the Advanced Electronic Signature AES . The destination may be the MTPA server .

According to embodiments of the present invention IPsec is a protocol suite for securing Internet Protocol IP communications by authenticating and encrypting each IP packet of a data stream. IPsec may also includes protocols for establishing mutual authentication between agents at the beginning of the session and negotiation of cryptographic keys to be used during the session. IPsec may be used to protect data flows between a pair of hosts for example computer users or servers between a pair of security gateways for example routers or firewalls or between a security gateway and a host. IPsec is a dual mode end to end security scheme operating at the Internet Layer of the Internet Protocol Suite or OSI model Layer . Some other Internet security systems in use such as Secure Sockets Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS and Secure Shell SSH operate in the upper layers of these models. Hence IPsec can be used for protecting any application traffic across the Internet. Applications need not be specifically designed to use IPsec. The use of TLS SSL may typically be incorporated into the design of applications.

According to embodiments of the present invention 3DES is a common name for the Triple Data Encryption Algorithm TDEA block cipher which applies the Data Encryption Standard DES cipher algorithm three times to each data block. 3DES provides a method of increasing the key size of DES to protect against brute force attacks without requiring a completely new block cipher algorithm.

According to embodiments of the present invention an electronic signature is any legally recognized electronic means that indicates that a person adopts the contents of an electronic message. One definition of electronic signature may be an electronic sound symbol or process attached to or logically associated with a contract or other record and executed or adopted by a person with the intent to sign the record. It may be an electronic transmission of the document which contains the signature as in the case of facsimile transmissions or it may be encoded message such as telegraphy using Morse code. Increasingly encrypted digital signatures are used in e commerce and in regulatory filings as digital signatures are more secure than a simple generic electronic signature.

In block the MTPA server routes the transaction packet to the issuer server . In one approach the MTPA server decrypts the account ID performs checks on identity and validity of accounts and routs the account ID and transaction dollar amount to the issuer server for further validation and authorization. In block the issuer server authorizes the transaction. According to an exemplary implementation the Issuer server validates the account ID performs the payment transaction and appends transaction packets with an authentication acknowledge field and sends the authorization to the MTPA server .

In block the MTPA server sends an acknowledged transaction packet to the acquirer server . Similar to block the transmission mechanism may use WAN with IPSEC 3DES or AES. In addition the transaction packet may include an appended acknowledgement receipt. In block the acquirer server sends the acknowledged transaction packet to the POS device . Similar to the block the transmission may use wireless LAN PSDN and the security may employ SSL DUKPT. In block the POS device prints a receipt for the mobile client device . In block the MTPA sends an electronic receipt to the mobile client device for example via a Short Message Service SMS and the transaction is completed.

According to embodiments of the present invention a SMS is a communication service standardized in the GSM mobile communication system using standardized communications protocols allowing the interchange of short text messages between mobile telephone devices. Messages are sent to a Short Message Service Centre SMSC which provides a store and forward mechanism. It attempts to send messages to their recipients. If a recipient is not reachable the SMSC queues the message for later retry. Transmission of short messages between the SMSC and the mobile device is performed using the Mobile Application Part MAP of the SS protocol. Messages are sent with the MAP mo ForwardSM and mt ForwardSM operations whose payload length is limited by the constraints of the signaling protocol to precisely 140 octets 140 octets 140 8 bits 1120 bits . Short messages can be encoded using a variety of alphabets the default GSM 7 bit alphabet the 8 bit data alphabet and the 16 bit UTF 16 alphabet. Depending on which alphabet the subscriber has configured in the mobile device this leads to the maximum individual Short Message sizes of 160 7 bit characters 140 8 bit characters or 70 16 bit characters including spaces. Larger content Concatenated SMS multipart or segmented SMS or long SMS can be sent using multiple messages in which case each message starts with a user data header UDH containing segmentation information. Since UDH is inside the payload the number of characters per segment is lower 153 for 7 bit encoding 133 for 8 bit encoding and 67 for 16 bit encoding. The receiving mobile device is then responsible for reassembling the message and presenting it to the user as one long message. While the standard theoretically permits up to 255 segments 6 to 8 segment messages are the practical maximum and long messages are often billed as equivalent to multiple SMS messages.

In the exemplary implementation shown in in block the mobile client device generates a bar code for a transaction. In block the POS device scans the bar code and generates a transaction ID. The transaction ID may include Issuer ID Account ID Merchant ID time stamp and transaction amount. In block the POS device sends the transaction ID to the MTPA server . The sending mechanism may employ LAN PSDN or wireless transmission and the security employed in the transmission may be SSL DUKPT to encode the transaction ID.

In block the MTPA server uses an issuer ID embedded in the transaction ID to route the transaction via the acquirer server to the issuer server for authorization. The MTPA decrypts the account ID performs checks on identity and validity of accounts and routs the account ID and transaction dollar amount via the acquirer server to the issuer server for further validation and authorization.

In block the acquirer server routes the transaction packet to the issuer server . The acquirer server may append its own Acquirer ID with the transaction ID and forwards it to the issuer server . According to embodiments of the present invention the routing may use WAN with IPSEC 3DES AES. In block the issuer server authorizes the transaction. In particular the issuer server validates the account ID performs the needed payment transaction appends transaction packets with authentication acknowledge field and sends the authorization to the acquirer server .

In block the acquirer server sends an acknowledged transaction packet to the MTPA server . The transmission mechanism may use WAN with IPSEC 3DES AES and the transaction packet may include an appended acknowledgement receipt. In block the MTPA server sends the acknowledged transaction packet to the POS device . The transmission may use LAN PSDN or wireless transmission and the security may employ SSL DUKPT. In block the POS device prints a receipt for the mobile client device . In block the MTPA sends an electronic receipt to the mobile client device and the transaction is completed.

According to some aspects of the disclosure the payer may set threshold amounts in the payer device for different types of transactions. Similarly the payer s bank may also set threshold transaction amounts for different types of transactions in the payer s bank server. In this manner to process a particular transaction if the transaction amount is larger than the preset threshold amount the payer s bank server sends a request to the payer device and waits for the payer s confirmation before it releases the fund and completes the transaction. Upon completion of the transaction the payee s clearing bank server may send a transaction acknowledge receipt to the payee device .

For example transactions and occurred in northern California while transaction occurred in Las Vegas Nev. The method checks the GPS locations of the client device during the period of transactions. If there is a discrepancy between any of the transactions and the actual GPS locations of the client device around the time and date of the transactions the client device can be configured to issue a notification in the form of generating instant message email ringtone or vibration to notify the user. In this example assuming the user was in northern California and did not go to Las Vegas a timely notification to the user can allow the user to address the issue as soon as possible.

In conventional methods a user is provided with his transaction record in batch mode for example once a month though paper statements or through online accesses by the user periodically. Weeks after the transactions have occurred some users may no longer remember certain transactions despite the transaction records have provided them with information such as date company name city state and amount of the transaction. This problem is address by the present disclosure. Using the POS GPS locations provided in the transaction record the client device can be configured to allow the user to view the location on a map or view a photo of the business where the transaction occurred. Thus enhancement in monitoring the transaction record can help fraud identification and loss avoidance which result in better security and higher integrity of the disclosed mobile payment system.

In when the user is making a purchase the client device compares the merchant and the item being purchased with the E coupons collected. In if there is a match the E coupon is applied to the purchase as part of the mobile web transaction flow. In one approach once an identification field is scanned and verified by the merchant all items purchased by the user can enjoy certain E coupon subject to the restrictions imposed by the merchant.

In one application the client device may be configured to receive auto notification of availability of E coupons from a merchant when the user is within a preset proximity for example mile of the merchant. This is beneficial to both the merchant and the user compared to the traditional public announcement system through merchant s speakers. It allows the merchant to send different users with different E coupons based on the users prior purchase history with the merchant. It also allows the merchant to send recommendations to a user based on the user s prior purchase history. For example if the user has previously purchased diapers the merchant may recommend E coupons of infant formulae. In another application the merchant may send E coupons to the user based on items the user will purchase. For example if the user has selected steak then the merchant may recommend E coupons for certain red wines or if the user has selected tortilla chips the merchant may recommend E coupons for certain salsas.

According to some aspects of the present disclosure the client device may be configured to perform auto delete of expired E coupons according to the corresponding expiration date associated with the E coupons which can save the user time by going through and removing expired paper coupons in conventional methods. In addition according to some aspects of the present disclosure the client device may be configured to remind the user about expiration of certain E coupons issued by a list of user s favorite merchants.

It will be appreciated that the above description for clarity has described embodiments of the invention with reference to different functional units and processors. However it will be apparent that any suitable distribution of functionality between different functional units or processors may be used without detracting from the invention. For example functionality illustrated to be performed by separate processors or controllers may be performed by the same processors or controllers. Hence references to specific functional units are to be seen as references to suitable means for providing the described functionality rather than indicative of a strict logical or physical structure or organization.

The methodologies described herein can be implemented by various means depending upon the application. For example these methodologies can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units can be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors electronic devices other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof. Herein the term control logic encompasses logic implemented by software hardware firmware or a combination.

For a firmware and or software implementation the methodologies can be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. Any machine readable medium tangibly embodying instructions can be used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example software codes can be stored in a memory and executed by a processing unit. Memory can be implemented within the processing unit or external to the processing unit. As used herein the term memory refers to any type of long term short term volatile nonvolatile or other storage devices and is not to be limited to any particular type of memory or number of memories or type of media upon which memory is stored.

If implemented in firmware and or software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Examples include computer readable media encoded with a data structure and computer readable media encoded with a computer program. Computer readable media may take the form of an article of manufacturer. Computer readable media includes physical computer storage media. A storage medium may be any available medium that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

In addition to storage on computer readable medium instructions and or data may be provided as signals on transmission media included in a communication apparatus. For example a communication apparatus may include a transceiver having signals indicative of instructions and data. The instructions and data are configured to cause one or more processors to implement the functions outlined in the claims. That is the communication apparatus includes transmission media with signals indicative of information to perform disclosed functions. At a first time the transmission media included in the communication apparatus may include a first portion of the information to perform the disclosed functions while at a second time the transmission media included in the communication apparatus may include a second portion of the information to perform the disclosed functions.

The invention can be implemented in any suitable form including hardware software firmware or any combination of these. The invention may optionally be implemented partly as computer software running on one or more data processors and or digital signal processors. The elements and components of an embodiment of the invention may be physically functionally and logically implemented in any suitable way. Indeed the functionality may be implemented in a single unit in a plurality of units or as part of other functional units. As such the invention may be implemented in a single unit or may be physically and functionally distributed between different units and processors.

One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that many possible modifications and combinations of the disclosed embodiments may be used while still employing the same basic underlying mechanisms and methodologies. The foregoing description for purposes of explanation has been written with references to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described to explain the principles of the invention and their practical applications and to enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as suited to the particular use contemplated.

