---

title: Apparatus and method to generate and detect virtual targets
abstract: An apparatus and method to generate and detect virtual targets. Position information for one or more virtual targets is calculated onboard a vehicle from real position information obtained from GPS satellites or other external or internal sources. This virtual position information is coded, mixed with a carrier frequency, amplified, and radiated to a nearby test vehicle, such as an aircraft. The amplitude of the radiated signal is adjusted such that the signal containing the virtual position information is received by the test aircraft only. The radiated signal thus adjusted is below the detection threshold of any aircraft further away. The test aircraft decodes the signal and interprets the decoded virtual position information as real aircraft in its vicinity. The coded signals may be structured to comply with the requirements of the FAA's ADS-B system. The apparatus may be mounted on the test aircraft itself, or on a nearby aircraft.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08604965&OS=08604965&RS=08604965
owner: Federal Aviation Administration/Department of Transportation
number: 08604965
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110208
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 282 535 filed Feb. 26 2010.

The present invention may be made or used by or on behalf of the Government without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

In the position information may consist of three dimensional position data for a real object in space for instance a test aircraft enhanced by additional data such as time altitude latitude longitude velocity acceleration trajectory local weather identification and other information that may be useful to aircraft and their operators. The position detector may be a GPS receiver that receives signals from a GPS satellite constellation or from multilateration techniques or from any convenient external source.

Whether mounted on the test aircraft or on a nearby testing aircraft the position detector may also determine position information from internal positioning sources for instance from a flight management system an inertial guidance device or a ring laser gyroscope. The position detector may also be an ADS B system responsive to ADS B positioning signals. Details of the ADS B system and its implementation by the Federal Aviation Administration are readily available in the literature.

The target calculator of receives this position information and calculates virtual position information for a number of virtual or phantom targets. In one embodiment of the invention the virtual position information is formatted to comply with the coding requirements established for transmission within the ADS B system.

In adjusting the strength of ADS B compliant RF signal such that it will reach the test aircraft only the radiated RF signal must not be so strong as to stimulate any ADS B systems onboard any aircraft further distant from the test aircraft . If nearby testing aircraft is to receive the radiated RF signal the strength of the radiated RF signal would be adjusted to not have sufficient strength to sufficiently stimulate and confuse ADS B receivers on aircraft further away. The virtual position information produced by the target calculator is used to modulate an RF signal generated by the signal generator to produce a modulated signal that is compliant with the standards established for ADS B signals. This modulated ADS B compliant RF signal is amplified by the signal amplifier and supplied to the antenna for broadcast. The strength of the ADS B compliant RF signal is adjusted to reach the ADS B receiver as represented by ADS B antennae onboard the test aircraft thus indicating to test aircraft that other aircraft are in the vicinity and providing the position information for these other aircraft. The signals received by the ADS B system onboard the test aircraft would then be whatever real aircraft are in the vicinity as well as the virtual aircraft . As shown above the apparatus may be onboard the test aircraft itself or in a nearby testing aircraft . The position information received by the test aircraft may or may not indicate whether any of the neighboring aircraft are virtual or real as appropriate for the test scenario. Because the strength of the ADS B compliant RF signal has been adjusted such that it will reach the test aircraft only no other aircraft further away will be confused by the virtual position information. The adjusted signal strength will be too weak to stimulate the ADS B receivers onboard any local aircraft except for the test aircraft .

A block diagram of another embodiment of the invention is shown in as the ADS B Virtual Target Generator System VTG . For the this embodiment VTG is described with reference to the 1090 Megahertz MHz Extended Squirter ES ADS B datalink system currently used by the FAA. Specific information on this system is also readily available in the literature. The following functions and or components of VTG reside in a Target Generator Unit A and a Radio Frequency RF Signal Unit B as illustrated in .

Electrical power to operate the VTG may be obtained directly from the electrical system onboard test aircraft or from an independent power source.

A GPS Receiver and a Virtual Target Position Computer are contained in a conventional personal computer or laptop computer having a computer screen and input device such as a keyboard mouse or track ball. The computer screen provides a user interface for VTG and may display real time traffic along with the virtual targets relative to the test aircraft. The computer screen may also display other information useful to the viewer such as system inputs functions and performance data. The input device inserts data into VTG to select a specific test scenario and the required initial starting parameters altitude heading velocity etc. of the virtually generated targets as well as dynamic control of the targets.

GPS Receiver provides independent real time position information such as latitude longitude heading and velocity of the test aircraft to allow the Virtual Target Position Computer to determine a relative offset position of the virtual targets in accordance with the test scenario.

Virtual Target Position Computer computes the position of the virtual aircraft that are required in the test scenario by calculating the required position latitude longitude and altitude heading and velocity necessary to place the virtual target aircraft s in the space around the test aircraft in a dynamic manner based on the predetermined test scenario. For instance the Virtual Target Position Computer may take x y and z coordinates or latitude longitude and altitude coordinates of test aircraft and create a virtual aircraft located at x a y b and z c at a common start time t. As t increases the relative position of the virtual aircraft may be held constant or vary dynamically and independently with time. Any number of additional virtual aircraft may be created by selecting various starting parameters and trajectories.

In this embodiment the GPS Receiver and Virtual Target Position Computer may be established in a Dell Precision M6400 laptop running a conventional operating system such as the Emperor Linux operating system. The GPS Receiver may be a PC GPS Adaptor card compatible with the computer such as the USGlobalSat BU 353 USB GPS Receiver. The Virtual Target Position Computer receives position information from the GPS Receiver and computes the position information or Virtual Target Position Data for a number of virtual targets. The position information on these virtual targets positions are computed based on a user pre defined scenario and can also be manipulated via interactive user control of the aircraft trajectories. The Virtual Target Position Data may then be enhanced with additional data such as the identity of the aircraft position accuracy and integrity metrics and other useful data. This enhanced Virtual Target Position Data is then provided by the Virtual Target Position Computer to the ADS B Message Controller .

ADS B Message Controller takes the computed positions from the Virtual Target Position Computer and schedules the individual 1090ES messages required for each of the virtual aircraft. The ADS B Message Controller converts the enhanced Virtual Position Data into messages that conform to the requirements of ADS B messages for each virtual target.

The ADS B Message Controller may be housed in a VME64X Chassis using a VME Processor Card such as the GE Fanuc VG5 Dual Power PC processor and operating under the Lynuxworks LynxOS RTOS 4.0 operating system and with the appropriate VME

Processor Card software. The messages constructed by the ADS B Message Controller are provided to a Digital Signal Generator consisting of a VME64X card within the chassis and a number of Altera MAX7000S CPLD cards that provide the following functions diagnostic control command latching VME control memory control timing control data shifting and memory storage. The device performing the memory storage function may be the IDT 64Kx32 dual port memory. Appropriate additional software to integrate these hardware and software units can be written by a computer programmer having ordinary skill in this art.

Digital Signal Generator constructs the information data content of 1090 ES messages into pulse position modulated data along with preamble data pulses to satisfy the required signal characteristics of 1090 ES messages to produce a baseband signal.

The output of the Digital Signal Generator is fed into RF Modulator where the ADS B compliant pulses modulate the output of a 1090 MHz RF Source . The output of RF Modulator consisting of the 1090 carrier signal modulated by the ADS B compliant pulses may be digitally attenuated from 30 dBm to 111.5 dBm power at the output of the RF Modulator for amplification by an RF Signal Amplifier such as the Mini Circuits ZRL 1150LN 32 dB RF amplifier.

RF Signal Amplifier amplifies or diminishes the RF signal so that the power level is sufficient to exceed the test aircraft s own 1090 MHz ADS B receiver s Minimum Trigger Level MTL . The gain of RF Signal Amplifier is adjustable to allow for variations in receiver MTLs and to minimize the range in which nearby aircraft would detect and decode the transmitted signals i.e. transmitted signal levels will be detected by the test aircraft only . The amplified RF signal that contains the amplified ADS B compliant signals for the virtual target aircraft is then provided to Antenna a quarter wave dipole designed to radiate at 1030 1090 MHz such as the Panorama BS 1100 1.1 GHz 3 dBi whip antenna.

In a conventional aircraft such as the Boeing 737 the signal strength at the output of Antenna is expected to be about 1 mW to be detected by the ADS B receiver of the aircraft. Other aircraft at great distances from the test aircraft do not see the virtual aircraft since the received signal strength from Antenna is below the threshold level necessary to stimulate the ADS B system onboard these other aircraft.

