---

title: Personal encryption device
abstract: A method and system for securing a handheld computing device is described. A personal encryption device may be physically connected to a handheld computing device. Responsive to the connection, a main screen user interface may be displayed on a display of the handheld computing device. The main screen user interface may include at least one cryptography option for a user of the handheld computing device. A user-defined input representative of selection of a first cryptography option of the at least one cryptography option may be received, and at least one cryptography process associated with the selected first cryptography option may be implemented by the handheld computing device and personal encryption device. The cryptography options may include encryption, decryption, digital signatures, and digital signature verification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08516609&OS=08516609&RS=08516609
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08516609
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110211
---
Data security and integrity is a constant need of any entity. In addition mobility is indeed often sought after for ease of use by employees of an entity. Today use of handheld computing devices for work purposes has become an everyday occurrence. Yet security of the data received by maintained on and or transmitted from such handheld computing devices may not always be adequate. Securing documents folders and or directories on handheld computing devices using hardened security may not always be an option. Private key information utilized as part of a public key infrastructure may not be able to be stored securely on such handheld computing devices. A need exists for heightened security of data associated with handheld computing devices.

In light of the foregoing background the following presents a simplified summary of the present disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the present disclosure. This summary is not an extensive overview of the present disclosure. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the present disclosure or to delineate the scope of the present disclosure. The following summary merely presents some concepts of the present disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description provided below.

Aspects of the present disclosure are directed to a method and system for securing a handheld computing device. A personal encryption device may be physically connected to a handheld computing device. Responsive to the connection a main screen user interface may be displayed on a display of the handheld computing device. The main screen user interface may include at least one cryptography option for a user of the handheld computing device. A user defined input representative of selection of a first cryptography option of the at least one cryptography option may be received and at least one cryptography process associated with the selected first cryptography option may be implemented by the handheld computing device and personal encryption device. The cryptography options may include encryption decryption digital signatures and digital signature verification.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure the data for operating the handheld computing device with the personal encryption device may include a PK certificate of the personal encryption device. The PK certificate may be maintained on the handheld computing device. A determination may be made as to whether the personal encryption device has been disconnected from the handheld computing device. Responsive to determining the personal encryption device has been disconnected from the handheld computing device at least one document folder and or directory may be encrypted with the PK certificate of the personal encryption device maintained on the handheld computing device.

Aspects of the present disclosure may be provided in a non transitory computer readable medium having computer executable instructions to perform one or more of the process steps described herein.

These and other aspects of the embodiments are discussed in greater detail throughout this disclosure including the accompanying drawings.

In the following description of the various embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration various embodiments in which the disclosure may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made.

Although not required various aspects described herein may be embodied as a method a data processing system or as a non transitory computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions. For example one or more computer readable media storing instructions to cause one or more processor to perform steps of a method in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure is contemplated. For example aspects of the method steps disclosed herein may be executed on one or more processors on a computing device . Such processors may execute computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media. The disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Input Output I O may include a microphone keypad touch screen camera and or stylus through which a user of computing device may provide input and may also include one or more of a speaker for providing audio output and a video display device for providing textual audiovisual and or graphical output. Other I O devices through which a user and or other device may provide input to device also may be included. Software may be stored within memory and or storage to provide instructions to processor for enabling computing device to perform various functions. For example memory may store software used by the computing device such as an operating system application programs and an associated database . Alternatively some or all of server computer executable instructions may be embodied in hardware or firmware not shown . As described in detail below the database may provide centralized storage of characteristics associated with individuals allowing interoperability between different elements of the business residing at different physical locations.

The computing device may operate in a networked environment supporting connections to one or more remote computers such as terminals and . The terminals and may be personal computers or servers that include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device . The network connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. When used in a LAN networking environment the computing device is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device may include a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. The existence of any of various well known protocols such as TCP IP Ethernet FTP HTTP and the like is presumed.

Computing device and or terminals or may also be mobile terminals including various other components such as a battery speaker and antennas not shown .

The disclosure is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the disclosure include but are not limited to personal computers server computers handheld or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Referring to an illustrative system for implementing methods according to the present disclosure is shown. As illustrated system may include one or more workstations . Workstations may be local or remote and are connected by one or more communications links to computer network that is linked via communications links to server . In system server may be any suitable server processor computer or data processing device or combination of the same.

Computer network may be any suitable computer network including the Internet an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a digital subscriber line DSL network a frame relay network an asynchronous transfer mode ATM network a virtual private network VPN or any combination of any of the same. Communications links and may be any communications links suitable for communicating between workstations and server such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links and the like.

The steps that follow in the Figures may be implemented by one or more of the components in and or other components including other computing devices.

As further shown a personal encryption device may be configured to provide public key infrastructure technology including digital signatures. Personal encryption device may be certified in accordance with the Federal Information Processing Standard FIPS publication 140 2. Still further personal encryption device may be configured to store private key information up to 2048. Personal encryption device may be configured to provide hash functionality including SHA 1 a cryptographic hash function designed by the national security agency and published as a U.S. FIPS.

In one illustrative configuration handheld computing device may be configured to store and run drivers to operate FIPS certified USB tokens using a standard PKCS 11 application programming interface API . In another illustrative configuration personal encryption device may be configured to have SHA 256 minimum. One more components of handheld computing device and or personal encryption device may be one or more components found in and or . For example handheld computing device may include a processor random access memory read only memory an input output module and a memory with operating system applications and database . Similarly personal encryption device may include one or more of these and or other components of .

One more aspects of the present disclosure are directed to enabling a handheld computing device such as handheld computing device to have authentication to have the ability for digital signatures to have the ability for hardened encryption and decryption of folders directories documents and e mail in addition to SSL connections or VPN connections. Personal encryption device may be configured to connect to an input output port of handheld computing device . Input output port may be located anywhere on handheld computing device and the illustrative example at the top of handheld computing device and is but one example. As shown handheld computing device further includes a display and an access button . Display may be configured to allow for a user to input data through touch screen technology. Alternatively and or concurrently display may allow for a user to use a stylus for input of user data an external keyboard for input of user data and or other external devices.

Without the attachment of a personal encryption device handheld computing device may not include any cryptography technology to secure data received by the handheld computing device data transmitted from the handheld computing device and or data maintained within the handheld computing device . In accordance with one or more aspects of the present disclosure upon connection of a personal encryption device handheld computing device may be configured to secure data received by the handheld computing device secure data transmitted from the handheld computing device and or secure data maintained within the handheld computing device .

Some aspects of the present disclosure are directed to a user interface of menu options that may be provided to a handheld computing device to allow the user to utilize cryptography technology on the handheld computing device. Upon connection of a personal encryption device data may be loaded as described in more detail below on the handheld computing device to provide a user interface of menu options on the display of handheld computing device for subsequent connections of the personal encryption device.

By accessing one or more options of user interface A a user of a handheld computing device with a personal encryption device connected thereto may utilize cryptography technology through the handheld computing device. As shown in user interface A includes an encrypt option a decrypt option a PKI option an SSL option a maintenance option and an exit option . When accessed exit option may be configured to remove focus from or entirely close user interface A of the options menu home screen. Each of the other illustrative option elements is described in more detail below. As understood user interface A is but one example of an options menu home screen that may be utilized and rendered on a display. The present disclosure is not limited to the examples provided herein and the examples of are but some illustrative examples.

For example a user of a handheld computing device without cryptography technology may desire to encrypt a document maintained on the handheld computing device. Upon connection of a personal encryption device to the handheld computing device the user may access the encrypt doc folder option and subsequently choose the document for encryption. Once encrypted with key data associated with the personal encryption device the now encrypted document may only be decrypted for access to read write and or both the document by use of the personal encryption device. As such upon removal of the personal encryption device the encrypted document maintained on the handheld computing device may not be accessed even by the user without reconnection of the personal encryption device. Therefore if the handheld computing device should be lost and or stolen the document that has been encrypted and any other document folder directory that may similarly be encrypted may not be accessible by another individual that comes into possession of the handheld computing device.

Also shown in user interface B may include an encrypt e mail option . Selection of encrypt e mail option allows a user the manual ability to encrypt e mails with another person s public key certificate. as described in more detail below is an illustrative process for encryption of e mails with another person s public key certificate utilizing a handheld computing device with a personal encryption device connected thereto. Although not shown selection of encrypt doc folder option and or encrypt e mail option may have a number of additional user interfaces rendered on display to allow the user to select the one or more documents folders directories and or the one or more e mails on the handheld computing device for encryption by the personal encryption device.

For example a user of the handheld computing device without cryptography technology may desire to decrypt a document maintained on the handheld computing device. Upon connection of the personal encryption device to the handheld computing device the user may access the decrypt doc folder option and subsequently choose the document for decryption once decrypted with the key data associated with the personal encryption device the now decrypted document may be accessed to read the document write to the document and or both. Although not shown a further submenu from decrypt doc folder option may allow a user to maintain a decrypted document folder and or directory in a decrypted state even upon removal of the personal encryption device. In such configuration upon removal of the personal encryption device the decrypted document may remain decrypted and maintained on the handheld computing device. In other configurations upon removal of the personal encryption device the once decrypted document may be encrypted as described in more detail herein and maintained on the handheld computing device. This encrypted document may not be accessed even by the user without reconnection of the personal encryption device.

Also shown in user interface C may include a decrypt e mail option . Selection of decrypt e mail option allows a user the manual ability to decrypt e mails using the private key associated with the personal encryption device. In such an example authentication may be required. Although not shown selection of decrypt doc folder option and or decrypt e mail option may have a number of additional user interfaces rendered on display to allow the user to select the one or more documents folders directories and or the one or more e mails on the handheld computing device for decryption by the personal encryption device.

For example a user of the handheld computing device without cryptography technology may desire to validate sign a document maintained on the handheld computing device. Upon connection of the personal encryption device to the handheld computing device the user may access the digitally sign option and subsequently choose the document for inclusion of a digital signature. In such an example the user may be required to authenticate to the personal encryption device using a personal encryption device personal identification number and or password associated with the user. The secret key maintained on the personal encryption device may then be used to digitally sign the identify document. As such as described in more detail herein an e mailed copy of the digitally signed document may be validated by a recipient as a true digitally signed document.

Also shown in user interface D may include a verify signature option . Selection of verify signature option allows a user the ability to verify a digital signature received from another source. In such an example the PK certificate associated with the sender may be utilized to validate the origin of the digitally signed document. Although not shown selection of digitally sign option and or verify signature option may have a number of additional user interfaces rendered on display to allow the user to select the one or more documents to digitally sign and or to verify the digital signature that are maintained on the handheld computing device.

For example a user of the handheld computing device without cryptography technology may desire to enable a secure connect using an SSL connection. Upon connection of the personal encryption device to the handheld computing device the user may access the initiate SSL connect option to make an SSL connection to another site. As such the handheld computing device may access another computing device via an SSL connection when connected to the personal encryption device.

Also shown in user interface E may include a create VPN session option . Selection of create VPN session option allows a user to enable a secure connect from the key credentials on the personal encryption device through a previously configured virtual private network VPN . In such an example authentication may be required. Still further user interface E may include a settings option . Selection of settings option enables a user to configure and manage any VPN connections and also to establish rules for SSL connections. Illustrative rules for SSL connections may include but are not limited to minimum key lengths SSL versions and other rules. Although not shown selection of initiate SSL connect option create VPN session option and or settings option may have a number of additional user interfaces rendered on display to allow the user to input data to the handheld computing device and or personal encryption device.

User interface A provides one or more options for a user with respect to encryption. Although not shown example options may include settings for a folder to be encrypted settings for a directory to be encrypted an option for auto encryption upon removal of the personal encryption device and automatic encryption of e mails to specific recipients with PKI certificates maintained on the handheld computing device. These are but examples that may be included within user interface A and the present disclosure is not so limited. User interface B provides one or more options for user with respect to decryption. In this example eight selectable decrypt options such as option option an option are rendered to the user. Options for the user with respect to decryption may include settings for a folder to be decrypted settings for a directory to be decrypted and option to automatically request a personal identification number PIN for decryption of the encrypted folders that may be applied upon insertion of the personal encryption device and automatic decryption of e mails from specific individuals. Although not shown selection of one or more options in user interface A and or B such as option may have a number of additional user interfaces rendered on display to allow the user to make further selections and or input further data.

Proceeding to the user may connect her personal encryption device to a handheld computing device. For example the user may connect personal encryption device to handheld computing device through an access port as illustrated in . In a determination may be made as to whether this is a first connection of the personal encryption device to the handheld computing device. If this is not a first connection the process may move to . If this is a first connection of the personal encryption device to the handheld computing device in software and or data from the personal encryption device may be loaded onto the handheld computing device. The software and or data may provide the options for usage of the personal encryption device such as one or more of the menu screens illustrated in . The software and or data may include a PK certificate for storage on the handheld computing device. In an alternative embodiment step may be an option at any time the personal encryption device is connected to the handheld computing device in such a situation for newer software and or data.

In the user may be required to authenticate connection of the personal encryption device to the handheld computing device. In an alternative embodiment step may occur as a first step after connection of the personal encryption device to the handheld computing device. Proceeding to a user interface can be displayed on the handheld computing device. The user interface may be displayed over a home screen user interface of the handheld computing device or the user interface may be displayed in place of the home screen user interface of the handheld computing device. The user interface of step may be user interface A of and or another user interface described with respect to any of .

In the user may select one or more individual e mails to encrypt. For example the user may have selected encrypt e mail option in . In the example of the user selecting individual e mails for encryption step may include a user drilling down within an e mail database to the appropriate e mail for encryption. The process proceeds to where the personal encryption device may perform encryption of the e mail on the handheld computing device. The process then proceeds to .

In a determination may be made as to whether the personal encryption device has been removed disconnected from the handheld computing device. If the personal encryption device has been removed in the PK certificate maintained on the handheld computing device may perform encryption as necessary on one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device. Identification of the relevant one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device for encryption in the occurrence of removal of the personal encryption device may be specified by a user through maintenance option of . The PK certificate maintained on the handheld computing device utilized for encryption on one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device was initially received from the personal encryption device.

If the personal encryption device has not been removed in the process may proceed to where determination may be made as to whether the user selects a different option. For example a determination may be made as to whether the user has returned to a main user interface such as user interface A in . If the user has selected a different option the process proceeds to where the different option selected is processed. If the user has not selected a different option in the process may return to .

In the user may select one or more individual e mails to decrypt. For example the user may have selected decrypt e mail option in . In the example of the user selecting individual e mails for decryption step may include a user drilling down within an e mail database to the appropriate e mail for decryption. Whether from a selected one or more e mails in or a selected one or more documents folders and or directories in in the personal encryption device may perform decryption of the selected e mail document folder and or directory on the handheld computing device. The process then proceeds to .

In a determination may be made as to whether the personal encryption device has been removed disconnected from the handheld computing device. If the personal encryption device has been removed in the PK certificate maintained on the handheld computing device may perform encryption as necessary on one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device. Identification of the relevant one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device for encryption in the occurrence of removal of the personal encryption device may be specified by a user through maintenance option of . The PK certificate maintained on the handheld computing device utilized for encryption on one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device was initially received from the personal encryption device.

If the personal encryption device has not been removed in the process may proceed to where determination may be made as to whether the user selects a different option. For example a determination may be made as to whether the user has returned to a main user interface such as user interface A in . If the user has selected a different option the process proceeds to where the different option selected is processed. If the user has not selected a different option in the process may return to .

If the user did not select to digitally sign a document such as the user selecting verify signature option in the process moves to where the personal encryption device may verify a digital signature received from another source. In the example of the user desiring to verify the digital signature of a document from an external source step may include a user drilling down within a file tree to the appropriate digitally signed document for verification.

In a determination may be made as to whether the personal encryption device has been removed disconnected from the handheld computing device. If the personal encryption device has been removed in the PK certificate maintained on the handheld computing device may perform encryption as necessary on one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device. Identification of the relevant one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device for encryption in the occurrence of removal of the personal encryption device may be specified by a user through maintenance option of . The PK certificate maintained on the handheld computing device utilized for encryption on one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device was initially received from the personal encryption device.

If the personal encryption device has not been removed in the process may proceed to where determination may be made as to whether the user selects a different option. For example a determination may be made as to whether the user has returned to a main user interface such as user interface A in . If the user has selected a different option the process proceeds to where the different option selected is processed. If the user has not selected a different option in the process may return to .

Proceeding to a determination may be made as to whether the digitally signed document may be verified. If the digitally signed document is verified by the recipient system the e mail may be presented to the recipient for viewing and or download in . If the digitally signed document is not verified by the recipient system an error message may be provided to the recipient in .

If the user did not select initiate SSL connect option in the process proceeds to where determination may be made as to whether the user has selected a create VPN session option from the main user interface. Step may be a determination as to whether the user has selected create VPN session option in . If the user did select create VPN option in the process proceeds to where personal encryption device creates a VPN connection and or enables a secure connection through a previously configured VPN. In such an example authentication may be required for enabling a secure connection through a previously configured VPN.

If the user did not select create VPN session option in the process proceeds to where the user may modify or more settings. Step may be user selecting settings option in . User options for the settings in may include configuring and managing any VPN connection and or to establish rules for SSL connections including minimum key lengths and SSL versions. The process then moves to .

In a determination may be made as to whether the personal encryption device has been removed disconnected from the handheld computing device. If the personal encryption device has been removed in the PK certificate maintained on the handheld computing device may perform encryption as necessary on one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device. Identification of the relevant one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device for encryption in the occurrence of removal of the personal encryption device may be specified by a user through maintenance option of . The PK certificate maintained on the handheld computing device utilized for encryption on one or more documents folders and or directories on the handheld computing device was initially received from the personal encryption device.

If the personal encryption device has not been removed in the process may proceed to where determination may be made as to whether the user selects a different option. For example a determination may be made as to whether the user has returned to a main user interface such as user interface A in . If the user has selected a different option the process proceeds to where the different option selected is processed. If the user has not selected a different option in the process may return to .

Proceeding to with the personal encryption device connected thereto the handheld computing device then sends the encrypted e mail to the recipient i.e. the specific individual. Then in the recipient may receive the e mail and may decrypt the e mail in accordance with the private key of the specific individual.

Aspects of the embodiments have been described in terms of illustrative embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure. For example one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the steps illustrated in the illustrative Figures may be performed in other than the recited order and that one or more steps illustrated may be optional in accordance with aspects of the embodiments.

