---

title: Dental restoration conditioning apparatus and method
abstract: Provided is a dental restoration conditioning apparatus including a housing formed with a liquid-tight dental restoration treating space including a liquid drain. The housing is configured with a disposable dental restoration grip including at least one resilient vacuum cup, each of the at least one vacuum cup being in fluid communication with at least one vacuum source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08828286&OS=08828286&RS=08828286
owner: Naym 55 Dental Technologies Ltd.
number: 08828286
owner_city: Hod Hasharon
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20110207
---
This is a Continuation In Part of International PCT Application No. PCT IL2009 0000769 filed on 6 Aug. 2009 and claims priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 61 136 012 filed on 6 Aug. 2008 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Hereinafter in the specification and claims the term dental restoration is used to denote any sort of coating applied over a tooth or a tooth prosthesis or an orthodontic implant either for prosthetic or aesthetic dentistry applied thereto by adhesion. A dental surface may be for example a veneer ceramic inlays and onlays crowns bridges and the like. A dental restoration may be made of a variety of material e.g. all ceram crowns ceramics alumina metal zirconium acrylic porcelain composite materials and the like.

Dental esthetics is an ever growing field among all disciplines in dentistry designed to improve esthetic appearance of a patient s teeth. Aesthetic dentistry refers among others to treatment of teeth that are discolored chipped misshaped or missing. Cosmetic treatment can reshape teeth close gaps restore worn or short teeth and even change the length of teeth. An aesthetic restoration in many cases is carried out for cosmetic reasons only though in some cases may also have functional aspects e.g. in case of corrective dentistry.

Cosmetic dental techniques have advanced dramatically over the last decade. The quality of materials like porcelains and composite resins has improved giving a more life like appearance. This however requires also special treatment and care at the practitioners end during preparation of the dental restoration article prior to and while applying same to the individual s teeth.

US Patent Application 20070141530 to Neil John Graham is directed to a device for vacuum holding a dental veneer during the trial placement of a veneer on a tooth application of adhesive to the veneer and final placement of the veneer on the tooth. The device includes a flexible suction cup with a connecting air bulb. The cup is placed on the external surface of the veneer while squeezing the air bulb. The veneer is held on the cup until the air bulb is squeezed. The instrument allows for multiple veneers to be simultaneously coated and placed.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 182 820 to Rathbauer John discloses a holder for dental implants namely dental veneers. The holder has a bottom tray and a top cover both opaque. The top cover has a recessed portion that is designed to receive a foam sheet. The foam sheet is designed to cover the top cover so that it blocks light from entering the closed holder. The bottom tray has recessed wells that are designed to receive dental veneers. When the cover is closed over the tray the light is blocked out so that light sensitive resin placed upon the dental veneers does not harden before the dental veneers are placed upon the patient s teeth.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 090 073 to Barnes is concerned with a dental tray assembly for storage of oral prosthetics includes a base and a cover associated with the base and being configured to be alternately positioned relative to the base in a first closed position and a second open position. A biasing element interconnects the base and the cover to provide a biasing force between the cover and the base the biasing force varying with position of the cover relative to the base to provide an attractive force between the cover and the base when the cover is in the first closed position and a repellant force between the cover and the base when the cover is in the second open position. A storage tray is nestable within the base the storage tray including at least two compartments each compartment being configured to receive and store an oral prosthetic therein.

The present invention aims at providing an apparatus for efficiently performing preparatory procedures on a dental restoration namely conditioning it after manufacturing however prior to adhesion over individual s teeth.

The present invention according to a first aspect thereof is directed to a dental restoration conditioning apparatus comprising a housing formed with at least one confined dental restoration treating space said housing fitted with at least one dental restoration grip and at least one fluid applying nozzle wherein at least one of said at least one dental restoration grip and at least one fluid applying nozzle is displaceable with respect to an other of said dental restoration grip and at least one fluid applying nozzle a supply of at least one fluid agent being in flow communication with said fluid applying nozzle a fluid drain from said confined space and a programmable controller.

According to another aspect the present invention is directed to a method for conditioning a surface of a dental restoration the method comprising the following steps 

 a Obtaining a dental restoration conditioning apparatus comprising a housing formed with at least one confined dental restoration treating space said housing fitted with at least one dental restoration grip at least one fluid applying nozzle wherein at least one of said at least one dental restoration grip and at least one fluid applying nozzle is displaceable with respect to an other of said dental restoration grip and at least one fluid applying nozzle a supply of at least one fluid agent being in flow communication with said fluid applying nozzle a fluid drain from said confined space and a programmable controller 

Any of at least one of the following features and designs are applicable for use in connection with the different aspects of the present invention 

According to another aspect of the invention the dental restoration grip is a resilient vacuum suction cup it has a housing formed with a flow path culpable to a suction source with a substantially resilient grip typically made of resilient material such as silicone rubber or the like wherein said grip has an open gripping edge and having at least one of the following features 

The dental restoration grip may be formed with a skirt like portion for protection concealment of a holder thereof. This is in particular useful when sand blasting is to be applied to the restoration grip and thus the skirt like portion protects the grip holder from wear during the sand blasting procedure. Thus the dental restoration grip may be also formed without said skirt portion and may be coupleable in different forms to a vacuum source.

A controller associated with the apparatus according to the invention is programmable whereby one may enter a series of conditioning parameters such as sequence of operations duration of each operation amount of fluid applied during each operations heating temperature flow rate type of alert signal audio and or visible .

According to another aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter there is provided a dental restoration conditioning apparatus comprising a housing formed with a liquid tight dental restoration treating space comprising a liquid drain said housing configured with a disposable dental restoration grip comprising at least one resilient vacuum cup each of said at least one vacuum cups being in flow communication with at least one vacuum source.

According to another aspect the present invention is directed to a method for conditioning a surface of a dental restoration the method comprising the following steps 

Any of at least one of the following features and designs are applicable for use in connection with the different aspects of the present invention 

Turning first to there is illustrated a dental restoration conditioning apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention generally designated . The apparatus comprises a housing sized suitably for being a desk top device and fitted with a lid pivotable with respect to the housing at between a closed position and an open position . The housing is fitted with a main power switch displaceable between ON OFF positions shutting down all the systems of the apparatus. The apparatus further comprises a light switch for activating an internal light . It is however appreciated that the illuminator assembly may comprise two independent light sources one being visible light e.g. fluorescent light and the other being a curing light source at a specified wavelength depending on the required performance.

Housing is further fitted with a set of operating knobs seen at enlarged view of and further there is provided a display panel on which one may view the status of the procedure being held and further useful in setting the parameters of a procedure.

The housing is fitted with a first inlet port connectable to a pressurized air source not shown a water supply port connectable to a fresh water supply not shown and a third inlet connectable to a supply of any suitable treating agent not shown e.g. etching agent etc. A drain port is provided connectable to a drain container or directly to the drain of a sink for example not shown . It is appreciated that further inlet ports may be provided depending on the required procedure namely the number of agents required for a particular procedure. Alternatively one of the inlet ports typically the third inlet port may be selectively coupled to different supply sources.

The lid together with the housing define a confined dental restoration treating space fitted with a dental restoration grip generally designated and comprising an array of vacuum cups each suited for vacuum gripping of a dental restoration . The lid may be treated so as to prevent admit only certain wavelengths of light therethrough e.g. to prevent day light through the lid to thereby avoid spontaneous curing of the materials applied over the dental restoration.

It is noticed that the dental restoration grip has an indexing bar which may be used to index the dental restorations in accordance with the location within an individual s mouth and be identified as upper lower jaw as common in the dentistry art. It is further noticed that in this particular embodiment the dental restoration grip is a uniform array though in accordance with other embodiments of the invention each suction grip may be an independent resilient vacuum cup which may be easily replaced to suit different sizes of dental restorations as well as different shapes thereof e.g. makes rendering it suitable for use in conjunction with veneers crowns inlays onlays bridges and the like . The housing is further fitted with a plurality of activating knobs each corresponding with a respective dental restoration grip and further with an indicator typically in the form of an LED indicating the state of a particular dental restoration grip.

Received within the confined dental restoration treating space there is a fluid applying nozzle which in the present example is slideably displaceable in two axes and in the first axis represented by arrow head extending parallel to the linear array of dental restoration grip and in a second direction perpendicular thereto as represented by arrowed line transversing the first direction. Optionally the fluid applying nozzle may further have another degree of freedom in a pivotal direction as represented by arrowed line . The degrees of freedom imparted to the fluid applying nozzle render it accessible to each dental restoration for performing a wide variety of operations as required and as will be mentioned hereinafter.

As can further be seen within the confined space there is provided a safety switch engageable by the lid cover whereby opening the lid instantaneously stops any operation of the apparatus and generates a corresponding signal to the programmable controller of the device not seen .

It is seen that the lid is made translucent though in accordance with other embodiments not shown it may have only a transparent window portion allowing visualizing the dental restoration grip portion .

The vacuum cups of the dental restoration grip may be activated by a contact sensor or by an IR detector or by means of operating knobs . Likewise stopping the active grip of a dental restoration applied over a resilient vacuum cup is carried out by pressing anyone of the corresponding knobs .

The apparatus is further provided with a heating unit not seen for heating any of the fluids applied to the apparatus i.e. air rinsing water or any other of the other applied liquid agents . However in accordance with other embodiments of the device hot air may be a priori supplied.

The apparatus is fitted with an ultra sonic transducer not seen for imparting the dental restoration with vibrations to thereby increase penetration of the liquids agents applied thereto thereby enhancing cleaning. The ultra sonic treatment is useful for example in cleaning micro pores on the dental restoration surface.

In order to prevent splashing of any fluids while treating a dental restoration fitted over one location of the dental restoration grip at least one protective shield may be provided in accordance with several configurations. For example a protective shield may be mounted over the displaceable fluid applying nozzle such that the shield displaces along with the nozzle. In accordance with another embodiment each location at the dental restoration grip is fitted with a shield whereby the fluid applying nozzle travels between the shields so as to apply fluid over a particular dental restoration received within a particular location however without affecting neighboring dental restorations applied over neighboring resilient vacuum cups respectively .

The programmable controller may be programmed to carry out different tasks depending on the nature of the dental restorations used and the specific procedure associated therewith. For example the controller may be programmed to automatically carry out a sequence of operations though it may be manually interrupted at any time with an internal clock governing the procedures which often require precise timing. The controller may be programmed to perform tasks such as cleaning with a jet of pressurized air rinsing with water or other liquid spraying with a solution drying with warm air applying different chemical agents such as etching agents adhesive bonding agents etc. The controller is programmable to determine the sequence of any such operations their duration intensity of jets applies heating temperature etc.

Turning now to the embodiment of there is illustrated a variation of the dental restoration conditioning apparatus in . The embodiment now generally designated is substantially similar to the previous embodiment and accordingly like elements have been designated with like reference numerals however shifted by 100.

The apparatus has a housing fitted with a programmable controller not seen and fitted with operating knobs . Whilst the housing is fitted with optional inlet ports namely air inlet port water inlet port and liquid agent port those are optional as the apparatus is fitted with an internal waste container an internal water container an internal liquid agent container and a cylinder of compressed air neither of which being seen however all being replaceable and may be provided in the form of a kit for use with the apparatus. The apparatus is also fitted with an internal heating chamber for heating air for purposes of drying the dental restorations or the water for rinsing thereof .

It is realized that whilst a drain port may be provided similar to port in the previous embodiment it would be advantageous to maintain the waste drain liquid within a waste container rather than disposing of such liquids to the sewage so as to be environmental friendly.

In addition it is noticed that rather than the individual liquid applying nozzle best seen in the previous embodiments in the present embodiment the apparatus is fitted with a multi fluid applying nozzle head generally designated and provided with a plurality of fluid applying nozzles best seen in the arrangement being such that each location of the dental restoration grip faces a corresponding fluid applying nozzle . In order to provide adequate fluid liquids or gaseous material over the treated dental restoration mounted on the respective vacuum cups the head is linearly displaceable in direction of arrowed head and is further pivotable about its longitudinal axis in direction of arrows .

According to this embodiment the dental restorations mounted on the respective dental restoration grip are treated simultaneously though it is appreciated that through each of the respective nozzles different substances may be applied. For example while several dental restorations may be dried using air other dental restorations may be rinsed while other dental restorations may be etched by a suitable etching agent applied thereon.

Similar to the previous embodiment it is advantageous to provide a shielding arrangement to prevent splashing of liquids from one dental restoration to a neighboring restoration. This may be carried out by either providing a plurality of shields each associated with a location of the dental restoration grip or with providing such shields each associated with the respective fluid applying nozzles .

Turning now to there is illustrated still an embodiment of a dental restoration conditioning apparatus in accordance with an embodiment of the application generally designated wherein for sake of clarification like elements are designated with like reference numbers as in connection with the embodiment of however shifted by 200.

The housing in accordance with this embodiment is formed with a confined dental restoration treating space accessed through a pivotable lid cover with respect to the housing at . The apparatus is fitted with a dental restoration grip comprising a plurality of resilient vacuum cups . As can be seen in particular in the vacuum cups are replaceable to conform with different size and shape of dental restorations and said resilient cups are mounted over a substantially rigid grip seat coupled to a suction line .

As can further be seen in the drawings each of the vacuum cups is received within a receptacle in the form of a basing constituting a shielding arrangement to prevent splashing contamination of neighboring dental restorations.

The apparatus comprises a removable basing formed at its lower end with a drain port extending out to the drain port .

As can be seen best in the apparatus in accordance with the present embodiment comprises an axially displaceable carriage slideable in direction of arrowed line . The carriage is formed with three fluid applying nozzles A B and C coupled to respective water container A pressurized air cylinder B and a treating agent C respectively. However in accordance with a modification rather than three separate fluid applying nozzles there may be provided only one such nozzle selectively connectable to each of said containers. Further containers may be introduced depending on the particular model of apparatus and the intended procedure.

The apparatus is further provided with a wrist support designated at whereby the practitioner may comfortably place his wrist thereover and perform accurate manipulations on the dental restorations in a sturdy manner. Such an operation may be for example sand blasting by a sand blasting device fitted with a sand blasting nozzle coupled via supply line to a pressurized source of blast a blasting agent. The nozzle is received within a dome shaped cover formed at its end with a bellows like protection skirt to be placed over the dental restoration fitted over the respective resilient vacuum cup . The arrangement is such that during performing a sand blasting procedure no material is scattered within the confined treating space which material is then drained through apertures formed in each depression as discussed hereinabove.

It is appreciated that other features of the embodiment illustrated in are substantially similar to those discussed in connection with the previous embodiments and the reader is directed thereto. For example there is provided an internal rate collecting container designated wherein all waste liquid and particles are collected therein and may then be removed and properly disposed of in a user friendly and environmentally friendly manner.

Furthermore the device is fitted with a programmable controller which in the particular case is positioned below the wrist support and is programmable and controllable via control panel via the display panel and the plurality of panel operating knobs .

The embodiment illustrated in is concerned with a dental restoration conditioning apparatus in accordance with a modification of the invention generally designated wherein like components as discussed in connection with the first embodiment of are designated with like reference numerals however shifted by 300.

The apparatus is a carousel type device wherein as opposed to the linear configuration of the previous embodiments in this embodiment the configuration is circular and operation is carried out in a carousel type device.

The apparatus is seen generally in and comprises a housing fitted with a domed lid defining beneath it a confined dental restoration treating space . The lid is fitted at a front portion thereof with a sector like aperture allowing access to in duty dental restoration grips .

A central post extends from the base and serves both for supporting the domed lid and for supporting supply lines extending to the various fluid applying nozzles A and B extending within the sectorial opening and further supporting other nozzles extending within the confined space for simultaneous treating of several dental restorations received within stand by dental restoration grip locations not extending within the sector .

It is appreciated that the sector portion is closeable by a tiltable lid pivotable to the main lid at .

A basin line tray is provided within the housing from which an outlet LED drain extends towards a drain port not seen . A carousel like dental restoration grip is rotatable within the housing by means of an electric motor engaged for rotation thereof by means of a drive belt so as to rotate the carousel in the required direction in accordance with sequence of conditioning operations controllable by the programmable controller .

Similar to the embodiment illustrated in connection with each dental restoration grip is formed within a respective well formed with a drain opening extending into the waste basin . Each resilient vacuum cup is coupled via vacuum line to a vacuum source for drain of waste liquid and debris.

The lid is formed with a side opening through which special procedures may be manually performed e.g. sand blasting as can be seen in wherein a sand blaster device is provided fitted at its fore end with a sand blasting nozzle which like in the embodiment of comprises a domed shaped protective cover with a bellows like open end and a suction tube extending therefrom. The device may be applied over a dental restoration mounted over a respective vacuum cup to thereby perform a sand blasting procedure however without effecting neighboring dental restorations received in neighboring depressions of dental restoration grips.

Turning now to there is an illustration explaining how vacuum supply to the vacuum cups is provided or discontinued. Accordingly each dental restoration grip is associated with a vacuum activated lever pivotably secured to the base at with a gripping portion extending through slot . An end of the lever is formed with an upwardly extending projection the arrangement being such that the lever is pivotably displaceable between an open position left most location in wherein the projection extends over the vacuum tube pressing it against the rigid wall surface thus discontinuing the vacuum towards the vacuum cup wherein a dental restoration may be easily placed or removed thereon. However after applying the dental restoration the lever is displaced in direction of arrow such that the projection disengages from the vacuum tube whereby suction now extends at the vacuum cup to maintain the dental restoration at its position.

A sequence of operations performed on dental restoration within the apparatus in accordance with the present invention may include several steps performed at different stages and depending on the particular procedure carried out. Such operations will include for example cleaning a dental restoration by applying thereon water or other cleaning agent enhanced cleaning using ultrasonic vibrations drying by applying thereto air or warmed air etching e.g. by using a hydrofluoric acid rinsing with fresh water applying other agents such as an adhesive agent Sailne applying a bonding agent or different cements and so forth flattening the applied layer s by a fine jet of air etc.

Further attention is now directed to illustrating an apparatus generally designated in accordance with a modification of the invention. The apparatus is a multiple type dental restoration and conditioning apparatus i.e. each dental restoration is separately treated independent of neighboring units. For sake of clarity lid is made transparent for visualizing the sum of the internal components.

The housing accommodates a large fluid reservoir and comprises a plurality of confined dental restoration treating spaces each extending between a pair of parallely extending walls said walls extending substantially upright and together with a base portion not seen define a liquid internal basin generally designated and can best be seen in used for performing various procedures such as rinsing ultrasonic treating of dental restorations etc.

In the embodiment of each confined space is fitted with an independent dental restoration unit each associated with an independent dental restoration grip unit generally designated best seen and discussed in detail with reference to . Likewise each confined space is fitted with an applying nozzle not seen that is required for carrying out a procedure on the dental restoration namely at least one fluid applying nozzles sand blasting applying nozzle and at least one drain outlet for rinsing and draining each respective confined space .

Furthermore since each of the treating spaces is fitted with an individual dental restoration treating unit thus each such unit is associated with a central programmable controller of the apparatus of which a display panel and touch sensor operating knobs are seen the programmable controller designed and programmed for carrying out a sequence of procedures as discussed hereinabove in connection with the previous embodiments.

As can further be seen the housing is fitted with an array of positions indicating LEDS comprising a plurality of indicator LEDs associated with each dental restoration unit and being indicative of the relative operative state of the respective unit further providing indication regarding progress of the procedure carried out by the particular dental restoration unit and other information such as proper positioning of a dental restoration over the griping cups etc.

Whilst each dental restoration unit operates independent of neighboring such units it is noticed that in order to minimize the overall footprint of the apparatus its weight and cost several components are common for the unit e.g. central controller central waste container common fluid containers e.g. rinsing liquids pressurized air if not supplied by an external source etc.

With further reference to there is illustrated a dental restoration unit in accordance with the present invention. As mentioned hereinabove each such unit is fitted within a dental restoration confined space and is designed for operation and performing a sequence of treatments over a dental restoration however independent of its neighboring restoration units .

Each unit comprises a basing defined between a pair of parallely extending substantially upright walls upwardly extending from a base fitted with a drain port . The basing is liquid impermeable and is suited for receiving therein different liquids including those which may be abrasive.

Extending above the dental restoration unit there is a dental restoration grip unit designated at which as will be discussed hereinafter in further detail comprises a dental restoration grip mechanism displaceable between a loading unloading position wherein the dental restoration not shown is loaded or unloaded on a respective grip readily accessible upon opening of the lid . The unit is then displaceable into a treating position wherein the dental restoration grip with a dental restoration thereon not shown is received within the basing namely emerged within a liquid received therein e.g. serving as an ultrasonic bath etching bath or for any other treatment such as sand blasting and the like. At an intermediate position the dental restoration grip unit is partially retracted within the unit whereby other operations may be performed on a dental restoration such as blow drying etc.

Each dental restoration grip unit comprises a partition side wall upwardly extending substantially parallel to the side walls of the basing wherein said wall apart from serving as a partition wall between neighboring dental restoration spaces further serves as a guide for the dental restoration grip unit and for that purpose it is formed with a curved cam path the arrangement being such that two neighboring walls have their respective path extending parallel to one another i.e. facing one another.

The dental restoration grip unit further comprises a grip carriage formed with a pair of parallel side walls each formed at its top edge with a tooth rack and a laterally extending shoulder which is slideably receivable in a reciprocal manner within a slot formed at the bottom end of partition wall . A power unit designated comprises an electric motor unit and a gear transmission has two lateral cog wheels only one of which is seen in each of the respective drawings and said power unit is secured to the partition side wall by means of holes extending through opening A formed in the side wall and B formed in the power unit .

At the assembled position the grip carriage is received between the two neighboring partition walls such that the gear is engaged with the toothed rack whereby rotation of the electric motor generates rotary motion to the gears resulting in axial reciprocal displacement of the grip carriage in a forward backward direction as represented by arrowed line .

The dental restoration grip unit further comprises a grip tray formed at its rear end with a pair of laterally projecting pins suited for sliding engagement within the cam path slot thus serving as a cam and follower couple to be discussed hereinafter in further detail.

The grip tray is pivotally secured to the grip carriage by a pair of pivot pins pivotally received within respective receptacle holes whereby the grip tray is capable of only pivotal rocking motion with respect to the grip carriage .

A replaceable dental restoration vacuum cup is securely fitted over a support seat formed at a front end of the grip tray said dental restoration vacuum cup is coupled into a receptacle and via a flexible tube to a vacuum source not seen . The arrangement is such that upon receipt of an appropriate signal the electric motor it is initiated such that gears rotate resulting in forward backward displacement of the grip carriage with respect to the walls resulting in turn in respective displacement of the grip tray in a motion combined of forward backward and pivotal displacement.

The position illustrated in respective illustrates the dental restoration unit in an intermediate position however received within the basing . Upon rotation of the gear wheels in direction of arrow the grip carriage displaces forwards in direction of arrow resulting in consequent forward displacement of the follower pins within the cam path which owing to the geometry of said path the grip tray pivots about pivot pins in direction of arrow whereby the vacuum cup now expands at the lowermost position for treatment within the basing . Further rotation of the pinion gear however in an opposite direction entails forward displacement of the grip carriage to its forward most position resulting and consequent pivotal displacement of the grip tray in direction of arrow thus disposing the vacuum cup in the so called loading unloading position wherein it emerges from the basing such that a dental restoration may be applied removed from the vacuum cup ready for a new cycle.

Turning now to there are illustrated a variety of dental restoration vacuum cups fitted for cooperation with an apparatus in accordance with the present invention. Each of the provides a top perspective view and a respective longitudinal sectioned view for understanding the structure of the vacuum cup.

The vacuum cups illustrated in are similar in their general construction however differ from one another in the fine and particular design of the suction element as will be discussed hereinafter.

Each of the suction units typically made of silicone rubber or the like comprises a tubular shank element with an external wall fitted for snuggly receiving within a receptacle formed at a grip tray see for example and further comprises a central bore is provided for suction engagement over the vacuum supply pipe in . The device comprises a support wall in the form of a skirt like portion such that when mounted on the grip tray it firmly bears against a corresponding support surface in . A resilient vacuum cup extends at an upper surface of each of the grips and is in flow communication with central bore via a conduit . The vacuum cup in all of the embodiments has the general shape of an inverted dome and as already mentioned above the differences between the examples of reside in the particular shape of the grip as discussed hereinbelow.

In the suction portion has a conical cross section with walls tapering outwardly and having a substantial thick edge . In the embodiment of the suction portion has similar shape as in however the walls are thinner and finer with a fine lip . illustrates a vacuum cup which has a crown like shape with a bottom portion resembling that disclosed in connection with however with a fine annular lip inwardly converging. The example of illustrates a cup wherein the peripheral lip portion is significantly finer than the base of the domed portion said lip portion slightly diverging outwardly. discloses an example which is similar to that disclosed in however with a thicker lip . illustrates an example in which thickness of the wall of the domed portion converges outwardly and further the general structure of the wall is thinner as compared with previous embodiments. illustrates an embodiment wherein the lip converges outwardly and has a downwardly projecting portion whereby in fact the edges of the lip do not engage a dental restoration when applied thereon. differs from the previous embodiments in that the domed cup is substantially concave however slightly oval rather than circular and having fine lips.

In the examples of the dental restoration grips are formed with a skirt like wall portion for protection concealment of a holder thereof. This is in particular useful when sand blasting is to be applied to the restoration grip and thus the skirt like portion protects the grip holder from wear during the sand blasting procedure.

However the example of illustrates a dental restoration grip formed without said skirt portion namely formed with a substantially tubular coupling neck which may be coupleable in different forms to a vacuum source.

It is appreciated that whilst several particular examples of vacuum cups have been illustrated a person versed in the art may combine any of these shapes or introduce further shapes which fall within the scope of the general concept.

With reference to there is illustrated another configuration of the dental restoration conditioning apparatus in accordance to the presently disclosed subject matter. The apparatus now generally designated comprises some of the elements substantially similar at least to the embodiment described with respect to designated with the same reference numerals however shifted by 700.

The apparatus comprises a housing sized suitably for being a desk top a device fitted with a basin and possibly fitted with a lid pivotable with respect to the housing between a closed position not shown and an open position .

The lid together with the housing and specifically the basin define a fluid tight dental restoration treating space fitted with a dental restoration grip generally designated and comprising an array of vacuum cups each suited for vacuum gripping of a dental restoration not shown .

The lid is made translucent or may have only a transparent window portion allowing visualizing the dental restoration grip .

The grip shown in is a disposable member and can be easily removed from the housing and replaced when necessary. In accordance with one embodiment the disposable grip is a uniform array fitted with a plurality of the vacuum cups . In such a case the grip is configured to be replaced together with the cups . The replacement may take place between different sequences of the same procedure and or between different procedures.

The grip comprises partition side walls upwardly extending substantially parallel to the side walls of the basin serving as partition walls between neighboring dental restoration spaces to thereby prevent for example splashing of agent therebetween.

In accordance with another embodiment of the presently disclosed subject matter not shown the grip may be constituted of independent disposable resilient vacuum cups each associated with its own independent grip and each configured to be independently replaced.

In both above embodiments the cups are designed to suit different sizes of dental restorations as well as different shapes thereof e.g. making rendering it suitable for use in conjunction with veneers crowns inlays onlays bridges and the like . A variety of dental restoration vacuum cups fitted for cooperation with an apparatus in accordance with the present invention are illustrated in and described above.

The apparatus further comprises a programmable controller which according to this embodiment is a timer for governing the procedures performed by the apparatus . The controller may be programmed to automatically carry out a sequence of operations though it may be manually interrupted at any time with an internal clock governing the procedures which often require precise timing.

The controller may be controllable via a control panel via a display panel and or a plurality of panel operating knobs all not shown .

The apparatus further comprises a drain for withdrawal of any waste liquid and debris generated during performing of the procedures. The drain may be in a form of a drain port or a waste container for maintaining the waste drain liquid therewithin.

With reference to the basin of the housing may be formed as a large fluid reservoir extending along both sides of the grip . Normally the reservoir is in fluid communication with a drain channel . However the drain channel may be sealed to allow the filling of the reservoir with fluid F above the cup for performing various procedures such as rinsing ultrasonic treating of dental restorations etc.

Reverting now to there is shown how vacuum supply to the vacuum cups is provided. According to this specific embodiment each vacuum cup is in flow communication with its corresponding vacuum source S through a connection pipe . Alternatively vacuum cups may be divided to groups each group connected to one vacuum source or all the cups may be connected to a single vacuum source.

The apparatus further comprises air exhausts all being in flow communication with a common air outlet port not shown and possibly with the drain port.

It should be appreciated that the apparatus according to as described above may comprise at least one of the features described with reference to the embodiments illustrated in the preceding figures.

Those skilled in the art to which this invention pertains will readily appreciate that numerous changes variations and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the invention Mutatis Mutandis.

