---

title: Model and methods for identifying points of action in electrically active cells
abstract: The invention provides a model for generating predicted action potentials of an electrically active cell. The disclosed model includes three operatively coupled submodels. A first submodel contains Hodgkin-Huxley elements generating action potentials based on electrical equivalent circuits. A second submodel is based on reaction kinetics of cell metabolism and is operatively coupled with the first submodel. A third submodel is based on Boolean dynamics representing signaling and associated cellular processes and is operatively coupled with the first and second submodels. The invention includes storing a library of calculated action potentials and associated cellular parameters generated by the model, applying a stimulus to the electrically active cell in vitro so that the cell generates an action potential; and comparing the cell-generated action potential with those stored in the library, wherein a match is predictive of the cellular point of action of the applied stimulus according to the parameters stored.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489474&OS=09489474&RS=09489474
owner: University of Central Florida Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 09489474
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110207
---
This application is a National Phase Application of International Application No. PCT US2011 023921 filed Feb. 7 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 301 669 filed Feb. 5 2010 which applications are incorporated herein fully by this reference.

This invention was made with Government support under agency contract grant number R01 EB005459 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to the field of cell modeling and more particularly to a model and methods for identifying a point of action of a substance in an electrically active cell.

A primary challenge common to both toxicology and drug development is the accurate in vitro determination of targets for a toxin or drug. Numerous methods have been developed to quantify the physiological change induced by toxins drugs in whole cell sensing devices 1 2 . One of the techniques frequently used for monitoring the state and activity of excitable cells is the recording of action potentials APs 3 4 . The shape of a given AP contains a significant amount of information as it is dependent on the concerted action of ion channels located in cellular membranes. Ion currents through ion channels are tightly regulated by receptors and the intracellular messenger systems 5 6 calcium 7 sodium 8 and potassium 9 . Channel modulators as well as a multitude of toxins and pathological conditions 10 11 are known to significantly affect the shape of APs. The myriad of complexities and challenges faced in the determination of sites of action for toxins and potential lead compounds are well known as well 12 13 . However whole cell models capable of using the shape of APs in order to accurately determine points of action for a particular toxin are currently lacking. Therefore there is a clear need for a whole cell modeling framework that functionally links AP generation via ion channels with all other cellular processes metabolism signaling transcription translation etc. .

The present invention discloses a model for generating predicted action potentials of an electrically active cell for example a mammalian neuronal cell. The model comprises a first submodel containing Hodgkin Huxley elements generating action potentials based on electrical equivalent circuits. A second submodel is based on reaction kinetics of mammalian cell metabolism and is operatively coupled with the first submodel. A third submodel is based on Boolean dynamics representing signaling and associated cellular processes and is operatively coupled with the first and second submodels.

In an embodiment of the invention the model as described above is capable of reacting to stimuli which are internal or external to the cell. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the stimulus may include any compound or composition that triggers the cell to generate an electrical response. Accordingly an electrical stimulus is included in the term stimulus. Additionally exposure to electromagnetic radiation for example light waves would also induce the cell to generate an electrical response in some cases. All of these are included in the term stimulus. Preferably the first second and third submodels are computer implemented. The first submodel quantifies changes in intracellular processes based on physiological changes in the cell responsive to input received from the second and third submodels. The second submodel comprises a plurality of modeled physiological compartments each having an associated compartment volume. The modeled physiological compartments comprise whole cell volume mitochondrial volume endoplasmic reticulum volume nuclear volume and extracellular volume. Preferably the mitochondrial volume endoplasmic reticulum volume and nuclear volume are nested in the whole cell volume. Also preferably the third submodel further comprises network topology and dynamic state for each pathway node to thereby assign relative importance to a pathway node with respect to overall response of a biological network. More specifically the third submodel may further comprise Glass dynamics providing a continuous time course simulation.

Additionally the disclosed model may be used to generate a library of simulation results comprising model parameters of the mammalian neuronal cell. The library of simulation results provides for the parameters to be stored in a structured query language database programmed in a computer. The results stored comprise a plurality of parameters selected from simulated action potentials Boolean model data of simulated cell signaling cascades scaling factors of cell metabolic processes ion and ATP concentrations data for ion channels included in the Hodgkin Huxley calculations and combinations thereof.

The model disclosed may be used to predict mammalian neuronal cell response to an applied stimulus. In particular the disclosed model provides a method of identifying a point of action of a stimulus applied to a mammalian neuronal cell. It should be understood that the stimulus may be external for example as when a compound or composition is applied to a cell e.g. an antibiotic a toxin an unknown compound. The stimulus could also be internal for example when a gene is activated. The method of this embodiment of the invention comprises storing a library of calculated action potentials and associated cellular parameters generated by a model having a first submodel based on Hodgkin Huxley calculations a second submodel operably linked thereto and based on reaction kinetics of neuronal cell metabolism and a third submodel operably linked to the first and second submodels and based on Boolean dynamics representing signaling and associated cellular processes. The method continues by applying the stimulus to the mammalian neuronal cell in vitro so that the cell generates an action potential and then comparing the cell generated action potential with the calculated action potentials stored in the library wherein a match is predictive of the cellular point of action of the applied stimulus according to the parameters stored for the matching calculated action potential. In the method the stimulus may comprise a drug or a toxin.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present invention will be better appreciated in view of the drawings and the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

In the Summary of the Invention above and in the Detailed Description of the Invention and in the accompanying drawings reference is made to particular features including method steps of the invention. It is to be understood that the disclosure of the invention in this specification includes all possible combinations of such particular features. For example where a particular feature is disclosed in the context of a particular aspect or embodiment of the invention that feature can also be used to the extent possible in combination with and or in the context of other particular aspects and embodiments of the invention and in the invention generally.

The term comprises is used herein to mean that other ingredients ingredients steps etc. are optionally present. When reference is made herein to a method comprising two or more defined steps the steps can be carried in any order or simultaneously except where the context excludes that possibility and the method can include one or more steps which are carried out before any of the defined steps between two of the defined steps or after all of the defined steps except where the context excludes that possibility .

In this section the present invention will be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout and prime notation is used to indicate similar elements in alternative embodiments.

An aspect of an embodiment of the invention is to provide a model of an entire mammalian neuronal cell that is capable of reacting to both internal and external stimuli. The hybrid whole cell model is the combination of three submodels that communicate via messengers 

How these three models connect and interact with each other to form the hybrid whole cell model is unique to this invention. The final product of this invention is a database containing simulation results from the hybrid model in the form of AP shapes and their corresponding model parameters. The shape of APs recorded from neuronal cells in the presence or absence of drugs toxins or combinations thereof can be compared automatically to simulated AP shapes stored in the database. The model parameters saved in the database along with AP shapes describe internal states of the cell under investigation. Parametric changes over time indicate a drug or toxins point s of action inside the cell. As the hybrid whole cell model becomes more complex the produced database will contain more detailed information about the possible internal or external stimuli and thus represent an invaluable tool for drug discovery systems biology and functional genomics research.

Ion channels are regulated by all common intracellular mechanisms including phosphorylation and second messenger dependent systems 15 with intracellular ions playing an equally significant role of second messengers in cells 16 . Electrical activity is highly dependent on the state physiology pathophysiology of the cells 17 . Action potential shape is determined by intracellular ionic concentrations ATP calcium cAMP and other second messenger dependent channels and pumps 18 20 .

In the presented hybrid whole cell model APs are generated by a Hodgkin Huxley HH submodel. In 1952 the scientists Hodgkin and Huxley published an electrical equivalent circuit composed of resistors and capacitances in order to reproduce the shape of APs recorded from squid neurons. The original HH model did not couple intracellular processes to electrophysiological parameters and action potential generation was considered as an all or none process without significant variability. This view is in contrast with findings concerning participation of ion channels in intracellular signaling and metabolic pathways 15 . Realistic experimentally validated cell models have already been developed and couple electrophysiological properties of the cell membrane to complex intracellular pathways 22 23 . These models are routinely used to predict explain physiological changes caused by intracellular mechanisms gene expression changes activation of second messenger systems phosphorylation etc. 24 . In this invention we couple the HH model to other models which are containing all relevant cellular processes metabolism signaling etc. in order to enable quantification of changes in intracellular processes based on physiological changes in the behavior of the cells.

The HH model of this invention is implemented as a program in the scientific computation environment Matlab The Mathworks Inc. and calculates a time dependent potential across the cell membrane by the following equation 

In addition to the published model this invention links a part of the K currents with the cytosolic concentration of adenosine triphosphate ATP . ATP is known to be a ubiquitous source of energy in the cell and therefore important for interactions between the submodels. The formulations for individual ion currents composing an AP are summands of 

The model of an NG108 15 was implemented in the commercially available tool box SimBiology for the scientific programming environment Matlab both from The Mathworks Inc. . However in order to capture the experimental environment the models were implemented with physiological compartments including physiological compartment volumes. The cellular volume of the NG108 15 hybrid cell was calculated to be 4.7712938E 8 ml using the equation for the volume of a sphere. The radius used 22.5 m is within the experimentally observed range published by the American Type Culture Collection ATCC . The mitochondrial volume was calculated to be 1.0471975E 12 ml using the equation for the volume of an ellipsoid with a length of 2 m width of 1 m and depth of 1 m. The mitochondrial volume was multiplied by 400 an estimated number of mitochondria in an NG108 15 hybrid cell and implemented as total mitochondrial volume. The volumes of the endoplasmic reticulum and the nucleus were approximated at 10 of the cellular volume or 4.7712938E 9 ml. Presuming a total simulation volume of 1 ml the extracellular volume was calculated to be 0.9940835 ml. The compartments were implemented in SimBiology as nested whereby the nuclear endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial volumes were nested in the cellular volume and the cellular volume was nested in the extracellular volume. In addition the compartments were implemented as volumetric ratios in order to address issues regarding solver tolerances solver Solaris . Hence the volumetric ratios were calculated to be 2.0834675E7 extracellular 1.0 cellular 8.779149E 3 mitochondrial 0.1 endoplasmic reticulum and 0.1 nuclear .

The compartmentalized metabolic model of an NG108 15 response to ATP load couples the metabolic models originally proposed by Lambeth glycolysis 33 and Cortassa mitochondria 34 . The glycolysis model converts glycogen to lactate through a series of fourteen reactions involving 21 species. The model contains fully reversible kinetic equations for each enzymatic reaction along with phosphate buffering via creatine kinase. The pyruvate generated by the glycolytic pathway is then either converted to lactate by means of lactate dehydrogenase or to acetyl coenzyme A AcCoA for use in the TCA cycle by means of pyruvate dehydrogenase. The detailed mitochondrial model consisting of 27 chemical species and 22 reactions including the tricarboxylic acid TCA cycle oxidative phosphorylation and mitochondrial transport processes was also constructed 34 . The TCA cycle completes the oxidation of AcCoA to COproducing NADH and FADH which provides the driving force for oxidative phosphorylation. When AcCoA concentrations are low the TCA cycle is driven primarily by consumption of glutamate while high the carbon flux through the TCA cycle can be regulated by the production of glutamate. TCA cycle dehydrogenases are regulated by mitochondrial Ca concentration and in this way the rate of Ca uptake by mitochondria is involved in membrane polarization through the TCA cycle and oxidative phosphorylation. The model includes both the explicit electrical gradient and proton gradient pH across the mitochondrial inner membrane established by oxidative phosphorylation. The large of the mitochondrial inner membrane determines the electrochemical transport of ions including calcium influx and efflux. In addition the model considers the explicit dependence of the citric acid cycle dehydrogenases on mitochondrial calcium concentration. Calcium dynamics are an important part of this model as the action of many toxins includes prolonged increase in cytoplasmic Ca concentration 35 .

In order to allow changes in simulated activity of the glycolysis model 33 to the mitochondrial metabolism model 34 every reaction was supplemented by a scaling factor Sand S respectively. The glycolysis model was coupled to the mitochondrial metabolism model with additional reactions for pyruvate transport into the mitochondria and conversion to acetyl CoA by pyruvate dehydrogenase. The rate equation for pyruvate transport had the general form

Pathway models of more than a hundred species present significant challenges for most commonly applied modeling techniques. Foremost among the problems is that few interactions in a large pathway model have well characterized chemical kinetics which eliminates many of the ordinary differential equation based approaches. Experimental observations of cellular function indicate that the input output behavior of many network types ex. signaling can be adequately approximated using the Heaviside or step function 25 . Recent research has focused on applying rule based Boolean models to the challenging problem of predicting biological network dynamics 26 . In a Boolean analysis the nodes of the pathway representing species can have an active 1 or an inactive state 0 . The network dynamics are determined by Boolean rules for each node that determine the state of the node at the next time step based on the state of the upstream nodes and the nodal update strategy. Rule based Boolean network models have been successfully used to aid in explaining experimentally observed robustness of cellular networks 25 27 28 and to determine the effects of an alteration in the network components and individual reaction rates 29 . The hybrid whole cell model contains an important augmented Boolean pseudo dynamics approach to identify and quantitatively rank the importance of a node using a Boolean description of a cellular interaction network. The approach known as the Boolean Network Dynamics and Target Identification BNDTI combines network topology and dynamic state information to determine the relative importance of a particular node with respect to the overall response of the network 30 . While Boolean models offer a convenient tool to quantitatively model regulatory networks current formulations have not been coupled with a HH to provide the capability to enable the simulation of AP response to perturbation of underlying cellular processes.

The ion channels and receptors that control membrane the potential and that mediate neuronal signaling exist on the plasma membrane. As most toxins target ion channels and receptors on the plasma membrane the whole cell model contains a hybrid Boolean and kinetic model of neuronal signaling on the plasma membrane. A Boolean function is used to describe the activation inactivation of a plasma membrane ion channel or receptor as a response to a specific stimulus concentration. The kinetic function is used to describe the association dissociation of the stimulus with the ion channel or receptor and the neuronal signaling mediated by the ion channel or receptor. These general stimuli were implemented as events in SimBiology . The events can be modified to reflect specific experimental conditions. The interaction of the stimulus with a general plasma membrane receptor has been implemented as a rule in SimBiology . The rule evaluates a Boolean function in a Matlab file that is evaluated at each simulation step. For the stimulus of interest additional details regarding its targets and its potency for its targets can be further specified in the Boolean function. In addition the association dissociation kinetics of the stimulus and its targets can be specified as a reaction in SimBiology . The whole cell model provides a conceptual hybrid Boolean and kinetic model of neuronal signaling on the plasma membrane that can be expanded to include other stimuli and their associated kinetics .

The primary benefit from using a Boolean approach is the ability to incorporate all biological information at hand in one framework without a detailed knowledge of the underlying chemical kinetics. The interaction between nodes in the network is determined by a set of logical rules based on connectivity. All interactions are characterized as logical operators AND OR NOT enabling automated translation of pathway files to logical rules. To obtain the logical rules the SBML pathway model is used to obtain the reaction type between all pairs of species. The form of the logical rule is dictated by the reaction type i.e. activation inhibition or binding association between species. Species activated by multiple other species form an OR rule species inhibited by one or multiple other species form an AND NOT rule and species binding associating with other species form an AND rule. For example the protein Ras of the mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK signaling pathway may be activated by SOS RasGRF RasGRP RapGEF or PKC but may be inhibited by Gap1m p120GAP or NF1. Therefore the logical rule for Ras is SOS OR RasGRF OR RasGRP OR RasGEF OR PKC AND NOT Gap1m OR p120GAP OR NF1 

Given the state of each of the species in this rule it can be evaluated to determine the final state of the species Ras. The logical rule assigned to each species can be used in to simulate the system and generate Boolean state trajectories.

For rules that contain a series of combined operations it is not computationally feasible to use the logical rule directly to evaluate the resultant state of the species i.e. 0 or 1. In order to simplify and speed up the evaluation of complex rules we can convert the rule into a more efficient form known as an ordered binary decision diagram OBDD . The algorithm proposed by Andersen and co workers can be used to convert the logical rules into an OBDD a compact unique representation of a Boolean expression. In order to construct an OBDD a decision tree representation of the logical rule is created by first setting the order of evaluation in the order of evaluation is A B and the C . Several redundant tests are evident in where both the low branch 0 and high branch 1 branch lead to the same value. Many of the unnecessary tests can be removed and any reference to a redundant node can be replaced by a reference to an upstream node. Once all redundant tests are eliminated the decision tree is converted into an OBDD. The resultant set of OBDDs are then stored for use during the simulation.

Having obtained the Boolean rules representing the inter species interactions the initial values of the network nodes can be assigned the input output nodes can be identified and their values fixed. In Boolean analysis the nodes of the network represent the genes and can have an active 1 or an inactive state 0 . Input nodes are specific nodes that have been identified as initiators of the stimulus response and output nodes are monitored to analyze the effect of the input node. The state of the input node is prescribed fixed or time varying variable throughout the simulation and the initial values for all network nodes are randomly generated at the start of each simulation so that an ensemble of simulations can be performed to enable the characterization of the ensemble averaged network behavior 26 28 45 46 . This quantitatively ranks the importance of a node using a Boolean description of a cellular interaction network. The approach known as the Boolean Network Dynamics and Target Identification BNDTI combines network topology and dynamic state information to determine the relative importance of a particular node with respect to the overall response of the network 30 . Once the system is initialized it is ready for simulation using the pseudo dynamic Boolean state update strategy.

In order to obtain the state trajectories the individual nodes of the regulatory network are updated in a pseudodynamic manner at each time step 26 28 45 46 . The update method is an asynchronous method 29 47 48 . This method assumes that the distribution of time scales within the cellular system is Gaussian. Nodes are updated once during each time interval with the update order being randomly selected at the beginning of each time step. Asynchronous updating is known to closely mimic the dynamic picture of cellular events and has been shown to effectively capture rare events 26 29 . The flexibility in an asynchronous update allows for one node to update once whereas other nodes could be updated at a faster rate. The selection of the number of time steps is governed by the ability to capture the system steady state profile 26 . The output from BPD is an array of 0 s and 1 s describing the state trajectories in the system. In order to account for all possible statistical distributions of the randomized initial state an ensemble of simulations is performed. The proposing team has observed that 10 000 simulations have generally proved to be sufficient.

In order to study the time evolving features of the cellular response to stimuli the static analysis based on network topology can be supplemented by a time course dynamic simulation. In this regard the Boolean pseudodynamics algorithm is an excellent approach to study the dynamics of regulatory systems when kinetic information is unavailable. A commonly employed approach that is closest to a realistic network description is one that employs a continuous simulation strategy. In this regard Glass and Kaufmann introduced a seminal technique hitherto referred as Glass dynamics 31 32 .

Glass dynamics provide a link between discrete Boolean and continuous ordinary differential equation models with the advantage of not requiring a kinetic description of the underlying processes. The network node dynamics in the Glass dynamics simulation are described by an ordinary differential equation 

Each equation is composed of two terms. The first term is an exponential decay term in the continuous variable and the second term represents the Boolean transfer function F that captures the interaction with other nodes. This Boolean function is composed of discrete variables. Borrowing notation from Chaves and co workers we let represent the continuous component of the variable associated with node I 49 . At each time instant the discrete variable Ais defined as a function of continuous variable according to a threshold value given as A t 0 for t . In these equations is bounded in the region 0 1 . The discrete variable represents whether the particular node is active or inactive i.e. on or off within the network. The limiting solution of the nodes is given by 0 1 and this represents the situation signifying the absence and maximum concentration of the nodal species respectively. The parameter provides a link between the continuous and Boolean parts of the nodal dynamic equation. When t the Boolean variable is switched to the activated or on state whereas it persists in the inactivated state otherwise. Thus the parameter determines the fractional level of maximum concentration required for the nodal species to function and characterizes the continuous response of the system. It is also interesting to note that the steady state solutions for both this hybrid method and the discrete asynchronous update BPD algorithm are the same.

The Glass dynamics model incorporates several additional components. Since the Glass dynamics equation is modeling an individual chemical species X that species in general participates in chemical reactions represented in Eq. 6 by the kinetic rate. The species Xmay also be affected by the action of individual cellular processes that is turned on off depending on the state of the cell. Also the time constant for the response of Xto the individual cellular process can vary significantly. The aforementioned dependences are included in the second term in Eq. 6. Finally the background state decay rate that ensures the Glass dynamics system will attain the proper steady state is included as the final term in Eq. 6. The background decay rate is essential to achieving proper steady state and has a tunable time constant.

All chemical species that interact with Boolean cellular processes use Eq. 6 to describe their kinetics. The remaining chemical species will use Equation 2 with the Boolean rate and state decay rates set to zero. Appropriate cellular process response coefficients and timescales for state decay rates can be extracted from the literature or available experimental data. illustrates some of the chemical species that will interact with the Boolean description of the cellular processes or functional categories.

A commercially available Structured Query Language SQL database is used to store simulation results from the hybrid whole cell model with their corresponding model parameters. The stored data is comprised of simulated APs 0.5 s resampled at 20 kHz including eight characteristic values the corresponding Boolean model parameters of simulated cell signalling cascades scaling factors of metabolic processes resulting ion and ATP concentrations as well as all parameters describing ion channel parameters for the HH model.

A method of using the whole cell model according to an embodiment of the invention will now be described. The method comprises preparing the whole cell model generating an AP database and using it to find a point of action of a substance. Portions of the method include 

In certain embodiments of the invention the method of using the whole cell model can be implemented using the internet. In those embodiments the database can be provided by a server application and can be updated centrally. Further a user such as a customer or licensor can use the database to identify a substance s point of action.

This example calibrates the submodels for NG108 15 cells and generates an AP database for variations in cytosolic glycogenolysis and mitochondrial metabolism as well as parametric changes in the HH model that reflect various cell sizes and experimental parameters.

NG108 15 cells were cultured experiments performed and model parameters filled according to published protocols 21 60 . Exemplary data is provided in as well as . Changes in intracellular ion or ATP concentrations lead to different AP shapes as depicted in .

NG108 15 cells were cultured according to 21 . In addition to the published standard plating on coverslips 1 000 000 cells were plated in either 6 or 12 75 cm T flasks for differentiation. After 4 days in differentiation the culturing media was replaced by 1 ml of the published 21 extracellular solution used during patch clamp experiments. The extracellular solution includes 10 mM 2 Desoxy Glucose 2DG . 2DG is favored over glucose by the glucose transporters located in the cell membrane. In contrast to glucose 2DG cannot be used by the cell to generate energy and thus affects the cellular metabolism.

For cells on coverslips 20 l samples of extracellular solution were taken right after the application of 2DG and every 20 minutes for 4 hours and stored in a freezer at 20 C. After 4 hours the frozen samples were thawed in order to determine the concentrations of glucose 2DG and lactate using commercially available standard calorimetric kits.

After 4 days in differentiation the media of cells in T flasks was replaced by the published extracellular solution including 10 mM 2DG. The first Cells in the first T flask were lysed immediately to determine the intracellular ATP concentration using commercially available ATP kits. Every 30 min cells in another T flask were lysed for ATP experiments. The ATP containing analytes were stored at 20 C. until all samples were collected. The ATP concentrations were determined using calorimetric ATP kits.

The results for concentration changes of glucose 2DG exemplary dataset is shown in lactate and ATP over time were used to calibrate of the Boolean metabolic model hybrid. The activity parameters of the cellular glycogenolysis Sand the mitochondrial metabolism Swere fitted until the simulated glucose consumption simulated extracellular lactate concentrations and the simulated intracellular ATP concentration matched the experimental results. The full metabolic model has been examined under increased nutrient cytosolic Ca2 and ATP load . Increased ATP consumption has been widely recognized to induce stimulation of respiration. It lowers ATP ADP ratio in the cell which could a stimulate ATP synthase such that mitochondrial membrane potential decreases and respiration increases b stimulate citric acid cycle dehydrogenases or c stimulate glycolysis and thus increase substrate for respiration 36 . As ATP consumption increases the metabolic model favors flux through lactate dehydrogenase over flux through pyruvate dehydrogenase B .

The activation inhibition of the general plasma membrane receptor i.e. serotonergic receptors 5 HT adrenergic receptors calcitonin receptor histamine receptor H or muscarinic receptors M M M was coupled with the activation of phospholipase C PLC which converts phosphatidylinositol 4 5 bisphosphate PIP to inositol 1 4 5 triphosphate IP and diacylglycerol DAG . The rate equation for the hydrolysis of PIPto IPand DAG by PLC was implemented using Michaelis Menten kinetics and multiplied by its Boolean value. Therefore when the Boolean value is zero the reaction rate is zero and when the Boolean value is one the reaction rate is 

This example also includes the implementation of a simple rate equation for IPand DAG consumption which used mass action kinetics. IP then activates IPR calcium channels on the endoplasmic reticulum membrane through which endoplasmic reticulum calcium is released into the cytosol . A primary ion involved in both the control of membrane potential and the mediation of neuronal signaling is calcium. While the flux of calcium to and from the mitochondria has been addressed by the implementation of the mitochondrial metabolism model 34 we have addressed the endoplasmic reticulum calcium flux by implementing reactions from Marhl et al. 58 . We modified the reaction rate of the IPR calcium channel from Chen et al. 59 to include a dependence on IP which was absent from the channel reaction rate from Marhl et al. Calcium dynamics are important in the development of the neuronal whole cell model as the action of many toxins includes prolonged increases in cytosolic calcium.

The shape of recorded and simulated APs is characterized by eight characteristic values the initial membrane voltage the maximum amplitude the AP width at half max the voltage at four distinct time points in steps of 25 ms after the stimulation as well as the tail potential. A classification of recorded action potentials is performed by a closest match search in the database given the eight characteristic AP values.

The calibrated and adjusted submodels were used in concert to create action potentials based on simulated intracellular ion and ATP concentrations . A 9 dimensional parameter space was selected with ranges as listed in Table 1. The simulated APs were evaluated for their 8 characteristic values and added to the database including all parameters used to create the output.

The culturing media of differentiated NG108 15 cells after 4 DIV was replaced by extracellular solution. APs were recorded before a toxin cyanide was applied. 164 consecutively recorded APs were evaluated by searching the database for three closest matches for each of the APs. illustrates the extraction of parameters from the database. The changes for HH parameters are depicted in . The parameters associated with the found matches describe a decrease in calcium currents followed by a slow decrease in sodium currents which lead to a steep increase in general leak and ATP gated potassium currents. These results indicate cell death due to poisoning by a toxin. Other exemplary drugs and their points of action are depicted in .

With this disclosure in mind wherein metabolic activity has been investigated by means of glucose uptake lactate output and ATP production we further envision that the presently disclosed invention will be applicable to cell modeling where the stimuli include but are not limited to NAD NADH pyruvate phosphate and calcium metabolism as well as to gene transcription and various signaling pathways.

The present invention has been described hereinabove with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein are intended to have the same meaning as commonly understood in the art to which this invention pertains and at the time of its filing. Although various methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention suitable methods and materials are described. However the skilled should understand that the methods and materials used and described are examples and may not be the only ones suitable for use in the invention.

Moreover it should also be understood that any temperature weight volume time interval pH salinity molarity or molality range concentration and any other measurements quantities or numerical figures expressed herein are intended to be approximate and not an exact or critical figure unless expressly stated to the contrary.

Further any publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety as if they were part of this specification. However in case of conflict the present specification including any definitions will control. In addition as noted above materials methods and examples given are illustrative in nature only and not intended to be limiting.

Accordingly this invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the illustrated embodiments set forth herein. Rather these illustrated embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Therefore in the specification set forth above there have been disclosed typical preferred embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed the terms are used in a descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. The invention has been described in some detail but it will be apparent that various modifications and changes can be made within the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the foregoing specification and as defined in the appended claims.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specified function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 6. In particular the use of step of claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6.

