---

title: Assisted state transition of a user equipment (UE) for delay sensitive applications within a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, an application server receives a call message, from an originating user equipment (UE), that is configured to request initiation of a communication session, to be arbitrated by the application server, between the originating UE and at least one target UE. The application server selectively sends, in response to the call message, dummy data to a serving access network of a given UE associated with the communication session in order to facilitate a transition of the given UE to a dedicated-channel state. For example, the application server can selectively send the dummy data based on a size of the call message and/or based on a type of the communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08873479&OS=08873479&RS=08873479
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08873479
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110124
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 305 364 entitled ASSISTED STATE TRANSITION OF A USER EQUIPMENT UE FOR DELAY SENSITIVE APPLICATIONS WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Feb. 17 2010 and to Provisional Application No. 61 301 919 entitled ASSISTED STATE TRANSITIONS OF A USER EQUIPMENT WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Feb. 5 2010 each assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present application for patent is related to U.S. Application No. 61 301 929 entitled MANAGING DEDICATED CHANNEL RESOURCE ALLOCATION TO USER EQUIPMENT BASED ON RADIO BEARER TRAFFIC WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Feb. 5 2010 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 297 963 entitled SELECTIVE ALLOCATION OF DEDICATED CHANNEL DCH RESOURCES WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on Jan. 25 2010 and also to co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 12 781 666 entitled TRANSITIONING A USER EQUIPMENT UE TO A DEDICATED CHANNEL STATE DURING SETUP OF A COMMUNICATION SESSION DURING A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed on May 17 2010 each of which are assigned to the assignee hereof and each of which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments relate to assisted state transitions of a user equipment UE for delay sensitive applications within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In W CDMA wireless communication systems user equipments UEs receive signals from fixed position Node Bs also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the Node Bs generally interacts with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as W CDMA CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints e.g. UEs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

In an embodiment an application server receives a call message from an originating user equipment UE that is configured to request initiation of a communication session to be arbitrated by the application server between the originating UE and at least one target UE. The application server selectively sends in response to the call message dummy data to a serving access network of a given UE associated with the communication session in order to facilitate a transition of the given UE to a dedicated channel state. For example the application server can selectively send the dummy data based on a size of the call message and or based on a type of the communication session.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple UEs.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. access terminals of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SSGN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via a Iu interface with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between the client device Node B s and the RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing the UE or access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Below embodiments of the invention are generally described in accordance with W CDMA protocols and associated terminology e.g. such as UE instead of mobile station MS mobile unit MU access terminal AT etc. RNC contrasted with BSC in EV DO or Node B contrasted with BS or MPT BS in EV DO etc. . However it will be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how the embodiments of the invention can be applied in conjunction with wireless communication protocols other than W CDMA.

In a conventional server arbitrated communication session e.g. via half duplex protocols full duplex protocols VoIP a group session over IP unicast a group session over IP multicast a push to talk PTT session a push to transfer PTX session etc. a session or call originator sends a request to initiate a communication session to the application server which then forwards a call announcement message to the RAN for transmission to one or more targets of the call.

User Equipments UEs in a Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN e.g. the RAN may be in either an idle mode or a radio resource control RRC connected mode.

Based on UE mobility and activity while in a RRC connected mode the RAN may direct UEs to transition between a number of RRC sub states namely CELL PCH URA PCH CELL FACH and CELL DCH states which may be characterized as follows 

Accordingly URA PCH State or CELL PCH State corresponds to a dormant state where the UE periodically wakes up to check a paging indicator channel PICH and if needed the associated downlink paging channel PCH and it may enter CELL FACH state to send a Cell Update message for the following event cell reselection periodical cell update uplink data transmission paging response re entered service area. In CELL FACH State the UE may send messages on the random access channel RACH and may monitor a forward access channel FACH . The FACH carries downlink communication from the RAN and is mapped to a secondary common control physical channel S CCPCH . From CELL FACH State the UE may enter CELL DCH state after a traffic channel TCH has been obtained based on messaging in CELL FACH state. A table showing conventional dedicated traffic channel DTCH to transport channel mappings in radio resource control RRC connected mode is in Table 1 as follows 

Communication sessions arbitrated by the application server in at least one embodiment may be associated with delay sensitive or high priority applications and or services. For example the application server may correspond to a PTT server in at least one embodiment and it will be appreciated that an important criterion in PTT sessions is fast session set up as well as maintaining a given level of Quality of Service QoS throughout the session.

As discussed above in RRC connected mode a given UE can operate in either CELL DCH or CELL FACH to exchange data with the RAN through which the given UE can reach the application server . As noted above in CELL DCH state uplink downlink Radio bearers will consume dedicated physical channel resources e.g. UL DCH DL DCH E DCH F DPCH HS DPCCH etc . Some of these resources are even consumed for high speed shared channel i.e. HSDPA operations. In CELL FACH state uplink downlink Radio bearers will be mapped to common transport channels RACH FACH . Thereby in CELL FACH state there is no consumption of dedicated physical channel resources.

Conventionally the RAN transitions the given UE between CELL FACH and CELL DCH based substantially on traffic volume which is either measured at the RAN e.g. at the serving RNC at the RAN or reported from the given UE itself in one or more measurement reports. Specifically the RAN can conventionally be configured to transition a particular UE to CELL DCH state from CELL FACH state when the UE s associated traffic volume as measured and or reported in the uplink or as measured and or reported in the downlink is higher than the one or more of the Event 4a thresholds used by the RAN for making CELL DCH state transition decisions.

Conventionally when an originating UE attempts to send a call request message to the application server to initiate a communication session the originating UE performs a cell update procedure after which the originating UE transitions to either CELL FACH state or CELL DCH state. If the originating UE transitions to CELL FACH state the originating UE can transmit the call request message on the RACH to the RAN . Otherwise if the originating UE transitions to CELL DCH state the originating UE can transmit the call request message on the reverse link DCH or E DCH to the RAN . Call request messages are generally relatively small in size and are not typically expected to exceed the Event 4a threshold s used by the RAN in determining whether to transition the originating UE to CELL DCH state.

In CELL FACH state the originating UE can begin transmission of the call request message more quickly e.g. because no radio link RL need be established between a serving Node B and serving RNC at the RAN no L1 synchronization procedure need be performed between the originating UE and the serving Node B etc. and no DCH resources are consumed by the originating UE. However the RACH is generally associated with lower data rates as compared to the DCH or E DCH. Thus while potentially permitting the transmission of the call request message to start earlier at an earlier point in time the transmission of the call request message on the RACH may take a longer time to complete as compared to a similar transmission on the DCH or E DCH in some instances. Accordingly it is generally more efficient for the originating UE to send higher traffic volumes on the DCH or E DCH as compared to the RACH while smaller messages can be sent with relative efficiency on the RACH without incurring overhead from DCH set up.

As noted above the originating UE s state e.g. CELL DCH or CELL FACH is determined based on the amount of uplink data to be sent by the originating UE. For example the standard defines an Event 4a threshold for triggering a Traffic Volume Measurement TVM report. The Event 4a threshold is specified in the standard and is used by the UE for triggering Traffic Volume Measurement Report which summarizes the buffer occupancy of each uplink Radio Bearer.

Other parameters which are not defined in the standard are an uplink Event 4a threshold for triggering the state transition of a given UE to CELL DCH state and a downlink Event 4a threshold for triggering the state transition of the given UE to CELL DCH state. As will be appreciated the uplink and downlink Event 4a thresholds being undefined in the standard means that the respective thresholds can vary from vendor to vendor or from implementation to implementation at different RANs.

Referring to the uplink Event 4a threshold in CELL FACH state if the reported uplink buffer occupancy of each Radio Bearer exceeds the uplink Event 4a threshold the RNC moves the UE to CELL DCH. In an example this decision may be made based on the aggregated buffer occupancy or individual Radio Bearer buffer occupancy. If aggregated buffer occupancy is used for deciding the CELL DCH transition the same threshold for triggering TVM can be used. Similarly referring to the downlink Event 4a threshold in CELL FACH state if the downlink buffer occupancy of the Radio Bearers of the UE exceeds the downlink Event 4a threshold the RNC moves the UE to CELL DCH state. In an example this decision may be done based on the aggregated buffer occupancy or individual Radio Bearer buffer occupancy.

Accordingly the size of the call request message can determine whether the originating UE is transitioned to CELL FACH state or CELL DCH state. Specifically one of the Event 4a thresholds is conventionally used to make the CELL DCH state determination at the RAN . Thus when the Event 4a threshold is exceeded the RAN triggers the CELL DCH state transition of the UE.

However the processing speed or responsiveness of the RAN itself can also affect whether the CELL DCH state or CELL FACH state is a more efficient option for transmitting the call request message. For example if the RAN is capable of allocating DCH resources to an originating UE within 10 milliseconds ms after receiving a cell update message the CELL DCH state transition of the originating UE may be relatively fast so that transitions to DCH may be suitable for transmitting delay sensitive call request messages. On the other hand if the RAN is capable of allocating DCH resources to an originating UE only after 100 milliseconds ms after receiving a cell update message the CELL DCH state transition of the originating UE may be relatively slow so that the transmission of the call request message may actually be completed faster on the RACH.

As will be appreciated the Event 4a threshold s are typically set high enough to achieve efficient resource utilization as lower Event 4a thresholds will cause more frequent DCH resource allocations to UEs that do not necessarily require DCHs to complete their data exchange in a timely manner. However it is possible that data transmissions that do not exceed the Event 4a threshold can be transmitted more quickly either in CELL FACH state or CELL DCH state based on the processing speed of the RAN and the amount of data to be transmitted. However as noted above conventional RANs do not evaluate criteria aside from whether measured or reported traffic volume exceeds the Event 4a threshold s in making the CELL DCH state transition determination.

In W CDMA Rel. 6 a new feature referred to as a Traffic Volume Indicator TVI is introduced whereby the originating UE has the option of including the TVI within the cell update message during a cell update procedure. The RAN will interpret a cell update message including the TVI i.e. TVI True as if the Event 4a threshold for triggering a TVM report was exceeded i.e. in other words as if the uplink traffic volume buffer occupancy exceeds the Event 4a threshold for triggering a TVM report such that the RAN will transition the originating UE directly to the CELL DCH state. Alternatively if the TVI is not included in the cell update message the RAN will only transition the originating UE to CELL DCH state upon receipt of a Traffic Volume Measurement Report for Event 4a.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to an application server assisted state transition whereby an application server selectively sends a dummy packet to a given UE e.g. an originating UE a target UE etc. . In an example the application server sets a size of the dummy packet to be greater than or equal to the downlink Event 4a threshold so that the RAN is prompted to facilitate a CELL DCH state transition for the given UE. Accordingly the application server can control whether the RAN transitions the given UE to CELL DCH based on whether the application server sends the dummy packet thereto.

Below illustrate application server assisted UE state transition processes wherein the system corresponds to a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS that uses Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA in accordance with embodiments of the invention. However it will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how can be directed to communication sessions in accordance with protocols other than W CDMA. Further certain signaling messages referred to herein are described whereby the application server corresponds to a PTT server. However it will be appreciated that other embodiments can be directed to servers providing services other than PTT to UEs of the system e.g. push to transfer PTX services VoIP services group text sessions etc. .

Referring to A of in another example the determination by the application server regarding whether to transition the originating UE into CELL DCH state can be based upon a type of the communication session e.g. VoIP PTX PTT etc. . For example the application server can compare the determined type of the communication session with a given list of session types in order to determine whether to transition the originating UE to CELL DCH state in A. In an example the given list of session types can be established such that when the comparison indicates that the determined type is present on the given list the application server determines to facilitate a transition of the originating UE into CELL DCH state. In this case the given list of session types may correspond to relatively delay sensitive communication sessions such as PTT or PTX sessions. Alternatively the given list of session types can be established such that when the comparison indicates that the determined type is present on the given list the application server refrains from facilitating a transition of the originating UE into CELL DCH state. In this case the given list of session types may correspond to communication sessions that are not particularly delay sensitive such as conventional calls or VoIP sessions.

Referring to if the application server determines to facilitate the transition of the originating UE to CELL DCH state in A then the application server sends a call request ACK to the originating UE in conjunction with a dummy packet A. In an example the dummy packet that is sent in A is configured to have a size at least equal to the downlink Event 4a threshold such that the RAN is prompted to transition the originating UE to CELL DCH state. Otherwise if the application server determines not to facilitate the transition of the originating UE to CELL DCH state in A then the application server sends a call request ACK to the originating UE without a dummy packet A.

The application server further determines whether to facilitate a transition of the at least one target UE to CELL DCH state A. As will be appreciated while shown as sequential blocks in the determinations of A and A can be performed concurrently. In an example the determination of A can be automatic such that the application server always determines to facilitate a transition of the at least one target UE to CELL DCH state during call set up. In another example the determination of A can be based on whether the application server expects the at least one target UE to be transitioned into CELL DCH state by the RAN during call set up based on an associated call announce message even in the absence of a dummy packet. For example the application server can evaluate a size of the call announce message to be sent to the at least one target UE in A and if the size of the call announce message is above the downlink Event 4a threshold used by the RAN to decide the transition to CELL DCH then the application server will assume the RAN is going to transition the at least one target UE to CELL DCH state based on the downlink traffic volume of the call announce message and thereby determines not to facilitate the CELL DCH transition in A. Alternatively if the size of the call announce message to be sent to the at least one target UE is not above the downlink Event 4a threshold then the application server will assume the RAN is not going to transition the at least one target UE to CELL DCH state based on the downlink traffic volume of the call announce message and thereby determines to facilitate the CELL DCH transition in A.

Referring to A of in another example the determination by the application server regarding whether to transition the at least one target UE into CELL DCH state can be based upon a type of the communication session e.g. VoIP PTX PTT etc. . For example the application server can compare the determined type of the communication session with a given list of session types in order to determine whether to transition the at least one target UE to CELL DCH state in A. In an example the given list of session types can be established such that when the comparison indicates that the determined type is present on the given list the application server determines to facilitate a transition of the at least one target UE into CELL DCH state. In this case the given list of session types may correspond to relatively delay sensitive communication sessions such as PTT or PTX sessions. Alternatively the given list of session types can be established such that when the comparison indicates that the determined type is present on the given list the application server refrains from facilitating a transition of the at least one target UE into CELL DCH state. In this case the given list of session types may correspond to communication sessions that are not particularly delay sensitive such as conventional calls or VoIP sessions.

Referring to if the application server determines to facilitate the transition of the at least one target UE to CELL DCH state in A then the application server locates the at least one target UE associated with the call request message and sends a call announce message to the at least one target UE in conjunction with a dummy packet A. In an example the dummy packet that is sent in A is configured to have a size at least equal to the downlink Event 4a threshold such that the RAN is prompted to transition the at least one target UE to CELL DCH state. Otherwise if the application server determines not to facilitate the transition of the originating UE to CELL DCH state in A then the application server locates the at least one target UE associated with the call request message and sends a call announce message to the at least one target UE without a dummy packet A e.g. if the call announce message itself is already above the downlink Event 4a threshold .

Referring to assume that a given UE originating UE is operating in either URA PCH or CELL PCH state B that the originating UE receives a request to initiate a communication session to be arbitrated by the application server e.g. a user of the given UE pressing a PTT button B and that the originating UE determines to send a call request message for initiating the communication session on the RACH in CELL FACH state B.

After determining to transmit the call request message from the originating UE on the RACH in CELL FACH state in B the originating UE configures a cell update message without a TVI so that the RAN does not transition the originating UE to CELL DCH state B. Accordingly the originating UE transmits the cell update message without the TVI on the RACH to the RAN B and the RAN responds to the cell update message by sending a cell update confirm message on the FACH that instructs the originating UE to transition into CELL FACH state B. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art transitions from URA PCH or CELL PCH state into CELL FACH state do not require a radio link RL to be set up between a serving Node B and a serving RNC at the RAN such that the cell update confirm message of B can be sent relatively quickly as compared to a cell update message instructing a UE to transition to CELL DCH state .

The originating UE receives the cell update confirm message of B and transitions to CELL FACH state B. Conventionally upon receiving a cell update confirm message from the RAN the originating UE would respond with a cell update confirm response message after which the originating UE would be permitted to send data on the RACH to the RAN . In the embodiment of however the originating UE and RAN are configured to permit the originating UE to transmit data before the cell update confirm response message is sent. Examples of how the originating UE and the RAN can be configured to facilitate this type of early data transmission on the RACH are disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 180 640 filed on May 22 2009 entitled TRANSMITTING A REQUEST TO INITIATE A COMMUNICATION SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. As will be appreciated sending the call request message s before the cell update confirm response message can result in an earlier transmission of data but is not necessarily an essential feature in each embodiment of the invention.

Accordingly before a cell update confirm response message is sent on the RACH to the RAN the originating UE transmits a given number of call request messages on the RACH to the RAN B. For example the originating UE can repeat the call request message at a given interval at least until the call request message is ACKed by the application server such that 1 . . . N call request messages can be sent in B where N 1. The RAN receives at least one of these call request messages and forwards the call request message to the application server B e.g. as in A of . Upon receiving the call request message and locating the associated call target s the application server announces the communication session to each call target B. focuses on the selective CELL DCH state transition of the originating UE and not the target UE s and as such any decision logic related to a selective CELL DCH state transition of the target UE s has been omitted from for the sake of clarity and is discussed in more detail in other embodiments of the invention.

After sending the call request messages . . . N in B the originating UE sends a cell update confirm response message on the RACH to the RAN B. As noted above the transmission of the cell update confirm response message would conventionally occur prior to transmission of data on the RACH whereas the originating UE and RAN are specially configured to permit an early transmission of data on the RACH in the embodiment of .

Turning back to the application server after decoding the call request message from B the application server sends a call request ACK to the RAN for transmission to the originating UE B. The RAN receives the call request ACK from the application server and transmits the call request ACK to the originating UE on the FACH B. While the call request ACK is shown as occurring after the announce message is sent in B it will be appreciated that the call request ACK can be sent concurrently with or before the announce message in other embodiments of the invention.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the application server is generally unaware of whether the originating UE is connected to the RAN in CELL FACH state or CELL DCH state. However to improve performance and reliability during the communication session the application server will generally desire to maintain the originating UE in CELL DCH state. Therefore in an embodiment of the invention the application server determines whether to facilitate a transition of the originating UE of CELL DCH state in B e.g. as in A of . For example the application server can evaluate the size of the call request message received at B to infer whether originating UE is expected to already be operating in CELL DCH state and can determine to transition the originating UE to CELL DCH state if the call request message is not above the threshold. Alternatively the determination of B can determine to transition the originating UE to CELL DCH state whenever a call request message is received irrespective of the size of the call request message. In a further example in addition to the size of the call request message the application server may also consider the roaming status of the UE in determining whether the UE is expected to be in CELL DCH state. For example if the UE is in a roaming network with message sizes smaller than the threshold assuming the application server has such knowledge the application server will assume the UE is not yet transitioned to CELL DCH. In a further example the application server can evaluate a call type of the communication session to determine whether to facilitate a transition of the originating UE into CELL DCH state in B.

In the embodiment of assume that the application server determines to facilitate the transition of the originating UE to CELL DCH state in B. Accordingly the application server sends a dummy packet to the RAN for transmission to the originating UE with the dummy packet having a size that is greater than or equal to an downlink Event 4a threshold B. Thus the dummy packet is set to be large enough e.g. greater than or equal to an downlink Event 4a threshold to trigger the RAN s own CELL DCH state transition mechanism for the originating UE.

Referring to the RAN specifically the serving RNC of the RAN receives the dummy packet and determines to transition the originating UE to CELL DCH state based on the dummy packet causing the downlink traffic volume to rise above the downlink Event 4a threshold B. Accordingly after establishing a radio link RL between the serving Node B and the serving RNC at the RAN for the DCH in B the RAN transmits a reconfiguration message to the originating UE over the FACH B. As will be appreciated the reconfiguration message can correspond to a Radio Bearer RB reconfiguration message a Transport Channel TCH Reconfiguration message or a Physical Channel PCH Reconfiguration message based on whether the Radio Bearer Transport Channel or Physical Channel is the higher layer of the originating UE to be reconfigured.

The originating UE receives the reconfiguration message and transitions to CELL DCH state and performs a L1 synchronization procedure B after which the originating UE transmits a reconfiguration complete message on the DCH or E DCH to the RAN B. The RAN then transmits the dummy packet to the originating UE on the DCH or HS DSCH B and the originating UE decodes and then drops the dummy packet B.

Referring to assume that a given UE originating UE is operating in CELL FACH state C and that the originating UE receives a request to initiate a communication session to be arbitrated by the application server e.g. a user of the given UE pressing a PTT button C and that the originating UE determines to send a call request message for initiating the communication session on the RACH in CELL FACH state C.

Because the originating UE is already in CELL FACH state the originating UE need not perform a cell update procedure to transition into CELL FACH state as in . Thus omits the steps of exchanging a cell update message cell update confirm message and cell update confirm response message as in B B and B of . Aside from this distinction the remainder of substantially corresponds to and will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In particular C C of correspond to B B and B B of respectively.

Referring to assume that a given UE target UE is operating in either URA PCH or CELL PCH state D and that the application server receives a call request message from an originating UE not shown D. Accordingly the application server sends an announce message to the RAN for transmission to the target UE D.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the application server is generally unaware of whether the target UE is connected to the RAN in CELL FACH state or CELL DCH state. However to improve performance and reliability during the communication session the application server will generally desire to maintain the target UE in CELL DCH state. Therefore in an embodiment of the invention the application server determines whether to facilitate a transition of the target UE of CELL DCH state in D. For example the application server can evaluate the size of the call announce message sent at D to infer whether target UE is expected to be transitioned to CELL DCH state by the RAN and can determine to further facilitate the transition of the target UE to CELL DCH state if the call announce message is not above the threshold. Alternatively the determination of D can determine to transition the target UE to CELL DCH state whenever a call announce message is transmitted irrespective of the size of the call announce message. In a further example in addition to the size of the call request message the application server may also consider the roaming status of the UE in determining whether the UE is expected to be in CELL DCH state. For example if the UE is in a roaming network with message sizes smaller than the threshold assuming the application server has such knowledge the application server will assume the UE is not yet transitioned to CELL DCH. In a further example the application server can evaluate a call type of the communication session to determine whether to facilitate a transition of the at least one target UE into CELL DCH state in D.

In the embodiment of assume that the application server determines to facilitate the transition of the target UE to CELL DCH state in D. Accordingly the application server sends a dummy packet to the RAN for transmission to the target UE with the dummy packet having a size that is greater than or equal to a downlink Event 4a threshold D. Upon receiving the call announce message from D the RAN pages the target UE because the target UE is in URA PCH state or CELL PCH state D. The target UE decodes the page from D and transitions to CELL FACH state D and the target UE sends a cell update message to the RAN over the RACH D. In D the RAN determines to transition the target UE to CELL DCH state because the downlink traffic volume is above the downlink Event 4a threshold based at least in part on the dummy packet from D. Accordingly the RAN sets up a RL connection between a serving RNC and serving Node B for the target UE D and then transmits a cell update confirm message on the FACH to the target UE that instructs the target UE to transition to CELL DCH state D. As will be appreciated the cell update confirm message can correspond to a radio bearer RB reconfiguration message a Transport Channel TCH Reconfiguration message or a Physical Channel PCH Reconfiguration message based on whether the Radio Bearer Transport Channel or Physical Channel is the higher layer of the target UE to be reconfigured.

The target UE receives the cell update confirm message and transitions to CELL DCH state and performs a L1 synchronization procedure D after which the target UE transmits a cell update confirm response message on the DCH or E DCH to the RAN D. The RAN then transmits the announce message to the target UE N times e.g. N 1 at a given interval on the DCH or HS DSCH D the target UE responds to the call announce message with an announce ACK message on the DCH or E DCH D and the RAN forwards the announce ACK message to the application server D. The RAN then transmits the dummy packet N times on the DCH or HS DSCH D and the target UE decodes and then drops the dummy packet D. Accordingly in the embodiment of the dummy packet decision of CELL DCH state transition decision of A of for the target UE occurs in conjunction in with the transmission of the call announce message.

Referring to assume that a given UE target UE is operating in either URA PCH or CELL PCH state E and that the application server receives a call request message from an originating UE not shown E. Accordingly the application server sends an announce message to the RAN for transmission to the target UE E.

Upon receiving the call announce message from E the RAN pages the target UE because the target UE is in URA PCH state or CELL PCH state E. The target UE decodes the page from E and transitions to CELL FACH state E and the target UE sends a cell update message to the RAN over the RACH E. In E the RAN determines not to transition the target UE to CELL DCH state because the downlink traffic volume is not above the downlink Event 4a threshold. Accordingly the RAN need not set up a RL connection between a serving RNC and serving Node B for the target UE and instead transmits N call announce messages on the FACH at a given interval to the target UE E. After the announce message s are sent in E the RAN transmits a cell update confirm message on the FACH to the target UE that instructs the target UE to transition to remain in CELL FACH state E As will be appreciated the cell update confirm message can correspond to a radio bearer RB reconfiguration message a Transport Channel TCH Reconfiguration message or a Physical Channel PCH Reconfiguration message based on whether the Radio Bearer Transport Channel or Physical Channel is the higher layer of the target UE to be reconfigured.

Conventionally upon receiving a cell update message from the target UE the RAN would respond with a cell update confirm message after which the RAN would be permitted to send data on the FACH to the target UE. In the embodiment of however the target UE and RAN are configured to permit the RAN to transmit data before the cell update confirm message is sent. Examples of how the target UE and the RAN can be configured to facilitate this type of early data transmission on the FACH is disclosed in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 180 640 filed on May 22 2009 entitled TRANSMITTING A REQUEST TO INITIATE A COMMUNICATION SESSION WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. As will be appreciated sending the call announce message s before the cell update confirm message can result in an earlier transmission of data but is not necessarily an essential feature in each embodiment of the invention.

The target UE responds to the cell update confirm message by sending a cell update confirm response message back to the RAN on the RACH E and the target UE responds to the call announce message from E by sending an announce ACK message to the RAN on the RACH E which is then forwarded by the RAN to the application server E.

The application server receives the announce ACK message and determines whether to facilitate a transition of the target UE of CELL DCH state in E. For example the application server can evaluate the size of the call announce message sent at E and or the announce ACK message received at E to infer whether the target UE is expected to be already be operating in CELL DCH state. Then the application server can determine to further facilitate the transition of the target UE to CELL DCH state if each of these messages is not above the threshold. In a further example in addition to the size of the call request message the application server may also consider the roaming status of the UE in determining whether the UE is expected to be in CELL DCH state. For example if the UE is in a roaming network with message sizes smaller than the threshold assuming the application server has such knowledge the application server will assume the UE is not yet transitioned to CELL DCH. Alternatively the determination of E can determine to transition the target UE to CELL DCH state whenever an announce ACK message is received from a target UE irrespective of the size of the call announce message or announce ACK message. In a further example the application server can evaluate a call type of the communication session to determine whether to facilitate a transition of the at least one target UE into CELL DCH state in E.

In the embodiment of assume that the application server determines to facilitate the transition of the target UE to CELL DCH state in E. Accordingly the application server sends a dummy packet to the RAN for transmission to the target UE with the dummy packet having a size that is greater than or equal to a downlink Event 4a threshold E. The RAN receives the dummy packet and determines to transition the target UE to CELL DCH state based on the downlink traffic volume for the target UE being above the downlink Event 4a threshold E. Accordingly the RAN sets up a RL between the serving RNC and serving Node B for the target UE E and then the RAN sends a reconfiguration message on the FACH to the target UE that instructs the target UE to transition to CELL DCH state E.

The target UE receives the reconfiguration message and transitions to CELL DCH state and performs a L1 synchronization procedure E after which the target UE transmits a reconfiguration complete message on the DCH or E DCH to the RAN E. The RAN then transmits the dummy packet to the target UE N times e.g. N 1 at a given interval on the DCH or HS DSCH E and the target UE decodes and then drops the dummy packet E. Accordingly in the embodiment of the dummy packet decision of CELL DCH state transition decision of A of for the target UE occurs upon receipt of the announce ACK message from the target UE.

Accordingly referring to unlike assume that a given UE target UE is operating in either CELL FACH state F. F through F correspond to D through D of respectively and as such will not be described further for the of brevity.

Because the target UE is already in CELL FACH state the RAN transmits the call announce message to the target UE N times at a given interval on the FACH F. A header portion of the call announce message transmissions of F can be configured to include a cell identifier for the target UE e.g. C RNTI . While the call announce message s are being transmitted on the FACH to the target UE the RAN determines to transition the target UE to CELL DCH state because the downlink traffic volume is above the downlink Event 4a threshold based at least in part on the dummy packet from F F. Accordingly the RAN sets up a RL connection between a serving RNC and serving Node B for the target UE F.

After decoding at least one of the call announce messages from F the target UE responds to the call announce message by sending an announce ACK message on the RACH to the RAN F and the RAN forwards the announce ACK message to the application server F.

After the RL set up from F completes the RAN sends a reconfiguration message e.g. a radio bearer RB reconfiguration message a Transport Channel TCH Reconfiguration message or a Physical Channel PCH Reconfiguration message based on whether the Radio Bearer Transport Channel or Physical Channel is the higher layer of the target UE to be reconfigured to the target UE on the FACH that instructs the target UE to transition to CELL DCH state F.

The target UE receives the reconfiguration message and transitions to CELL DCH state and performs a L1 synchronization procedure F after which the target UE transmits a reconfiguration complete message on the DCH or E DCH to the RAN F. The RAN then transmits the dummy message to the target UE N times e.g. N 1 at a given interval on the DCH or HS DSCH F and the target UE decodes and then drops the dummy packet F. Accordingly in the embodiment of the dummy packet decision of CELL DCH state transition decision of A of for the target UE occurs in conjunction in with the transmission of the call announce message.

It will be appreciated that demonstrates an example whereby the announce ACK is sent on the RACH before the reconfiguration complete message is sent by the target UE and while the target UE is still in CELL FACH state G. illustrates an alternative implementation to the process of whereby the announce ACK is transmitted from the target UE only after the reconfiguration complete message is sent. Accordingly in the announce ACK transmission of F and F from is not performed. Instead after the target UE transmits the reconfiguration complete message in G e.g. as in F of the announce ACK message is sent in G and G. Also because the target UE has transitioned to CELL DCH state G at this point in the process of the announce ACK message of G is sent on the more reliable and faster DCH or E DCH. is otherwise similar to and related elements e.g. G and G will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Accordingly referring to unlike assume that a given UE target UE is operating in either CELL FACH state H. The application server receives a call request message from an originating UE not shown H. Accordingly the application server sends an announce message to the RAN for transmission to the target UE H.

Upon receiving the call announce message from H the RAN determines not to transition the target UE to CELL DCH state because the downlink traffic volume is not above the downlink Event 4a threshold H. Also because the target UE is already in CELL FACH state the RAN transmits N call announce messages on the FACH at a given interval to the target UE H. The remainder of is otherwise similar to and will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In particular H through H of correspond to E through E of respectively.

While references in the above described embodiments of the invention have generally used the terms call and session interchangeably it will be appreciated that any call and or session is intended to be interpreted as inclusive of actual calls between different parties or alternatively to data transport sessions that technically may not be considered as calls . Also while above embodiments have generally described with respect to PTT sessions other embodiments can be directed to any type of communication session such as a push to transfer PTX session an emergency VoIP call etc.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

