---

title: Multiplexing in an optical transport network (OTN)
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a plurality of signals at a plurality of ports, each of the signals having a protocol type; mapping each of the signals to one or more time slots of one of a plurality of Low Order Optical Transport Network (OTN) containers; mapping the Low Order OTN containers to a High Order OTN container; mapping the High Order OTN container to a High Order OTN envelope for communication over an OTN; and, in connection with the mapping of the High Order OTN container to the High Order OTN envelope, for each of the signals, inserting into the High Order OTN envelope information identifying the port that the signal was received at, the protocol type of the signal, the Low Order OTN container that the signal was mapped to, and one or more of the time slots that the signal was mapped to.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08644340&OS=08644340&RS=08644340
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08644340
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110207
---
Multiplexing typically involves joining multiple signals together for communication over a network. However in many cases different signals may have different protocol types.

In one embodiment a method includes receiving a plurality of signals at a plurality of ports each of the signals having a protocol type mapping each of the signals to one or more time slots of one of a plurality of Low Order Optical Transport Network OTN containers mapping the Low Order OTN containers to a High Order OTN container mapping the High Order OTN container to a High Order OTN envelope for communication over an OTN and in connection with the mapping of the High Order OTN container to the High Order OTN envelope for each of the signals inserting into the High Order OTN envelope information identifying the port that the signal was received at the protocol type of the signal the Low Order OTN container that the signal was mapped to and one or more of the time slots that the signal was mapped to.

Particular embodiments relate to systems and methods for identification of each client traffic transported over an OTN allowing more efficient multiplexing and demultiplexing. In particular embodiments OTN can multiplex and transport different kinds of data traffic. Clients are first mapped into a low order container and then aggregated into an high order container. Timeslots presented in OTN provide containers for transporting different type of traffic. Particular embodiments provide a way to identify at the receiving site each client traffic without demultiplexing the low order containers. In one embodiment a method includes 

Platforms may each include any suitable device for connecting clients to OTN so that clients may send and receive signals over OTN . For example platforms may each include a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a server a combination of two or more of these or any other suitable device for connecting clients to OTN . In particular embodiments platforms may receive signals from clients prior to the signals being sent over OTN . In particular embodiments platforms may receive the signals from clients through any suitable connection. For example platforms may receive the signals from clients through a wired connection or a wireless connection. In particular embodiments platforms may further multiplex the signals received from clients before sending the signals over OTN . For example platforms may perform multiplexing operations such as wavelength division multiplexing WDM on the signals received from clients . In such an example the signals may be received at one or more ports of platforms and platforms may multiplex the signals before sending them over OTN . In another example the platforms may include one or more muxponder cards that may perform multiplexing operations. In such an example the signals may be received at one or more ports of the muxponder cards of platforms . In particular embodiments platforms may further demultiplex any wavelengths received from OTN . As such platforms or the muxponder cards in platforms may break up the received wavelength into multiple signals for communication to clients . In particular embodiments any multiplexing and demultiplexing performed by platforms may be implemented according to ITU T Recommendations G.707 G.709 and G.783 which are incorporated herein by reference.

OTN may include any suitable optical network for communicating signals. In particular embodiments OTN may include one or more optical fibres capable of transmitting optical signals having multiple wavelengths. In particular embodiments OTN may include one or more amplifiers or one or more Reamplification Reshaping and Retiming 3R regeneration points throughout the optical fibres in order to facilitate the communication of signals. In particular embodiments OTN may utilize wavelength division multiplexing WDM in which a number of optical channels are carried over a common path by modulating the channels by wavelength. In particular embodiments OTN may utilize any other suitable multiplexing operation.

In particular embodiments multiplexing may include ports Low Order OTN containers time slot bundles a High Order OTN container and High Order OTN envelope . Multiplexing may utilize any suitable operation for multiplexing signals for communication over an optical transport network. For example multiplexing may utilize WDM. As another example multiplexing may utilize dense wavelength division multiplexing DWDM . In a further example multiplexing may utilize coarse wavelength division multiplexing CWDM .

Ports may include any suitable device for receiving signals to be communicated over an optical transport network. For example ports may include a small form factor pluggable SFP an optical SFP an electrical SFP a SFP a 10 Gigabit small form factor pluggable XFP or any other suitable device for receiving signals to be communicated over an optical transport network. In particular embodiments ports may receive signals from clients of for communication over OTN of . In particular embodiments each port may receive signals from only one client . In particular embodiments each port may receive signals from more than one client . In particular embodiments more than one port may receive signals from only one client . Ports may receive the signals from clients over any suitable connection. For example ports may receive the signals from clients over a wired connection. As another example ports may receive the signals from clients over a wireless connection. In particular embodiments ports may further receive signals from OTN to be communicated to clients .

In particular embodiments ports may be components of any suitable device. For example ports may be components of one or more of platforms of . As another example ports may be components of one or more muxponder cards. For example ports may be components of a muxponder card installed in or on the platform . In particular embodiments ports may be components of any other suitable device. In particular embodiments ports may be components of a single device. For example ports may be components of a single muxponder card. In particular embodiments ports may be components of multiple devices. For example one or more of ports may be components of a first muxponder card and one or more of the remaining ports may be components of any other suitable number of muxponder cards.

Although illustrates eight ports e.g. port port port port port port port and port particular embodiments of multiplexing may include any suitable number of ports . For example multiplexing may include less than eight ports or more than eight ports . In particular embodiments multiplexing may include fourteen ports . In particular embodiments multiplexing may include 255 ports .

Low Order OTN containers may include any suitable containers for the signals received at ports . For example Low Order OTN containers may include containers that a signal received at the port may be mapped to. In particular embodiments Low Order OTN containers may be communicated over an optical transport network as is described in ITU T Recommendation G.709. For example Low Order OTN containers may be Level 1 Optical Data Units ODU1s . In such an example Low Order OTN containers may include 2.5 Gigabits. In another example Low Order OTN containers may include Level 2 Optical Data Units ODU2s . In such an example Low Order OTN containers may include 10 Gigabits. In a further example Low Order OTN containers may include Level 3 Optical Data Units ODU3s . In such an example Low Order OTN containers may include 40 Gigabits.

In particular embodiments the signals received at ports may be mapped to Low Order OTN containers . In particular embodiments a signal received at a port may be mapped to any of Low Order OTN containers . For example a signal received at the port may be mapped to Low Order OTN container . In another example a signal received at the port may be mapped to Low Order OTN container and a signal received at the port may be mapped to Low Order OTN container also.

Although illustrates four Low Order OTN containers e.g. Low Order OTN container Low Order OTN container Low Order OTN container and Low Order OTN container particular embodiments of multiplexing may include any suitable number of Low Order OTN containers . For example multiplexing may include more than four Low Order OTN containers or less than four Low Order OTN containers . In particular embodiments although multiplexing illustrates the signals being mapped to Low Order OTN container the signals may be first mapped to an optical channel payload unit OPU not shown before being mapped to Low Order OTN container .

The time slot bundles may refer to any suitable collection of time slots. For example the time slot bundles may refer to a collection of time slots included in Low Order OTN containers . In particular embodiments the time slot bundles may refer to a collection of one or more time slots. For example in the illustrated embodiment each of the time slot bundles may refer to a collection of sixteen time slots. In particular embodiments each of the time slot bundles may refer to a collection of time slots in a particular Low Order OTN container . For example the time slots in the time slot bundle may refer to the time slots in Low Order OTN container . The time slots of the time slot bundles may include any suitable storage area in Low Order OTN containers . For example a signal received by a port may be mapped to one or more time slots in a time slot bundle of a Low Order OTN container . In such an example a first signal may be mapped to time slots through in a time slot bundle of a Low Order OTN container and a second signal may be mapped to time slots through in the time slot bundle of Low Order OTN container . A signal may be mapped to any suitable number of time slots of a time slot bundle . For example a signal may be mapped to one time slot four time slots sixteen time slots or any other suitable number of time slots. Although the illustrated embodiment illustrates each time slot bundle as including sixteen time slots in particular embodiments the time slot bundles may include any suitable number of time slots such as more than sixteen time slots or less than sixteen time slots.

High Order OTN container may include any suitable container for Low Order OTN containers . For example High Order OTN container may include any container that Low Order OTN containers may be mapped to. In particular embodiments the High Order OTN containers may be communicated over an optical transport network as is described in ITU T Recommendation G.709. For example High Order OTN container may be an ODU. In particular embodiments High Order OTN container may include any suitable container with a level that is higher than Low Order OTN containers . For example in particular embodiments where Low Order OTN containers may be ODU1s High Order OTN container may be an ODU2. In such an example High Order OTN container may include 10 Gigabits. As such four of Low Order OTN containers may be mapped into High Order OTN container e.g. four 2.5 Gigabit containers may be mapped to a 10 Gigabit container . As another example in particular embodiments where Low Order OTN containers may be ODU2s High Order OTN container may be an ODU3. In such an example High Order OTN container may include 40 Gigabits. As such four of Low Order OTN containers may be mapped to High Order OTN container e.g. four 10 Gigabit containers may be mapped to a 40 Gigabit container . As a further example in particular embodiments where Low Order OTN containers may be ODU3s High Order OTN container may be an ODU4. In such an example High Order OTN container may include 100 Gigabits.

In particular embodiments by mapping a Low Order OTN container to a High Order OTN container the signal s mapped to Low Order OTN container may also mapped to High Order OTN container . In particular embodiments more than one of Low Order OTN containers may be mapped to a single High Order OTN container . For example four Low Order OTN containers may be mapped to a single High Order OTN container . In such an example all the signals that are mapped to each of four Low Order OTN containers are also mapped to High Order OTN container .

High Order OTN envelope may include any suitable envelope for High Order container . For example High Order OTN envelope may include any envelope that High Order OTN container may be mapped to. In particular embodiments High Order OTN envelope may be communicated over an optical transport network as is described in ITU T Recommendation G.709. For example High Order OTN envelope may be an optical transport unit OTU . In such an example High Order OTN envelope may condition High Order OTN container for communication over an optical transport network. In particular embodiments High Order OTN envelope may be any suitable envelope with a level that is the same as or higher than High Order OTN container . For example in particular embodiments where High Order OTN container is an ODU2 the High Order OTN envelope may be an OTU2. In such an example High Order OTN envelope may have a line rate of approximately 10.7 Gigabits per second Gbps for communication over an optical transport network. As a further example in particular embodiments where High Order OTN container is an ODU3 High Order OTN envelope may be an OTU3. In such an example High Order OTN envelope may have a line rate of approximately 43 Gbps for communication over an optical transport network. As another example in particular embodiments where High Order OTN container is an ODU4 High Order OTN envelope may be OTU4. In such an example High Order OTN envelope may have a line rate of approximately 100 Gbps for communication over an optical transport network.

In particular embodiments by mapping a High Order OTN container to a High Order OTN envelope the signal s mapped to High Order OTN container may also mapped to High Order OTN envelope . In such an embodiment all the signals that are mapped to each of four Low Order OTN containers which are mapped to High Order OTN container as described above are also mapped to High Order OTN envelope . Accordingly in particular embodiments High Order OTN envelope may have various signals mapped to it and one or more of the signals may have a different protocol type as described above.

In particular embodiments High Order OTN envelope may further include identifying information corresponding to the mapped signals. For example High Order OTN envelope may store identifying information that may correspond to each signal that is mapped to High Order OTN envelope . By including identifying information corresponding to the signals mapped to High Order OTN envelope the identifying information may be accessed without having to terminate and demap Low Order OTN containers mapped to High Order OTN container and High Order OTN envelope . illustrate example storage of identifying information in High Order OTN envelope .

In particular embodiments High Order OTN envelope of is similar to High Order OTN envelope of . In particular embodiments High Order OTN envelope includes an OTU. For example the High Order OTN envelope may include an OTU2 OTU3 or OTU4. In particular embodiments High Order OTN envelope may include any other suitable envelope for communication over an optical transport network.

In particular embodiments High Order OTN envelope includes framing FA OH OTU overhead OTU OH Section Monitoring SM General Communication Channel 0 GCC0 Reserve RES bytes Trail Trace Identifier TTI Bit Interleaved Parity level 8 BIP 8 Backward Error Indication BEI Backward Incoming Alignment Error BIAE Backward Defect Indication BDI Incoming Alignment Error IAE Reserve RES bytes Source Access Point Identifier SAPI Designation Access Point Identifier DAPI and Operator Specific . Each of these elements may be standard elements of an OTU and are further described in ITU T Recommendation G.709 which is incorporated herein by reference.

In particular embodiments the OTU OH includes SM as is illustrated. Furthermore SM includes TTI which includes Operator Specific . In particular embodiments Operator Specific may include thirty two bytes e.g. bytes through of TTI . In particular embodiments the thirty two bytes of Operator Specific may store identifying information corresponding to the signal mapped to High Order OTN envelope . For example Operator Specific may store any identifying information that is inserted into High Order OTN envelope . In such an example the identifying information may be inserted into High Order OTN envelope when a High Order OTN container is mapped to High Order OTN envelope . Furthermore the identifying information may be inserted by any suitable device such as platforms of or one or more muxponder cards in platforms .

In particular embodiments the bytes of Operator Specific may store any suitable information corresponding to a signal. For example the identifying information corresponding to the signal may identify the port that the signal was received at the protocol type of the signal the Low Order OTN container that the signal was mapped to or the time slots that the signal was mapped to in the Low Order OTN container. In particular embodiments any other suitable information corresponding to the signal may be stored in the bytes of Operator Specific . In particular embodiments where the identifying information includes the identity of the port that the signal was received at the identifying information may explicitly identify the port that the signal was received at or may implicitly identify the port that the signal was received at as illustrate.

In particular embodiments storing the identifying information may include storing Port and Protocol Mapping Identifiers PPMI corresponding to the identifying information. In particular embodiments storing the identifying information may include storing any other suitable type of data type corresponding to the identifying information.

In particular embodiments by storing the identifying information in Operator Specific the identifying information may be accessed without having to terminate and demap any Low Order OTN containers mapped to a High Order OTN container and High Order OTN envelope . For example Operator Specific is included in TTI . As such TTI including Operator Specific may be inspected during its communication through the optical transport network in order to avoid Trail Trace mismatch. Accordingly the identifying information may be inspected while the rest of TTI is inspected also. Therefore the identifying information may be inspected without terminating and demapping any Low Order OTN containers. In particular embodiments the identifying information may be inspected by a 3R regeneration point on the optical transport network.

Although illustrates the identifying information as being stored in the bytes of Operator Specific of the High Order OTN envelope in particular embodiments the identifying information may be stored in the Path Monitoring Trail Trace Identifier PM TTI of a High Order OTN container or the Tandem Connection Monitoring Trail Trace Identifier TCMx TTI of a High Order OTN container.

In particular embodiments Operator Specific includes port number section protocol type section ODU number section and time slot section . In particular embodiments port number section may include identifying information regarding what port a signal was received at. For example in particular embodiments where a signal was received at a particular port such as the first port port number section may include identifying information that actually identifies the first port. In particular embodiments actually identifying a port may refer to storing any identifying information about the port in the bytes of Operator Specific . By storing the identifying information about the port in Operator Specific the port may be explicitly identified when Operator Specific is inspected. In particular embodiments explicitly identifying the port is different from implicitly identifying the port as illustrates.

Protocol type section may include identifying information regarding the protocol type of the signal mapped to the High Order OTN envelope. For example in particular embodiments where a 1 GbE signal is mapped to the High Order OTN envelope protocol type section may include identifying information that identifies the signal as a 1 GbE signal. ODU number section may include identifying information regarding the Low Order OTN container that the signal was mapped to. For example in particular embodiments where a signal was mapped to a particular Low Order OTN container such as the second Low Order OTN container ODU number section may include identifying information that identifies the second Low Order OTN container. Time slot section may include identifying information regarding the time slots that the signal was mapped to. For example in particular embodiments where a signal was mapped to particular time slots of a Low Order OTN container such as time slots through time slot section may include identifying information that identifies the first time slot that the signal is mapped to e.g. time slot . In another example time slot section may include identifying information that identifies any of the time slots that the signal is mapped to. In such an example where the signal was mapped to time slots through time slot section may include identifying information that identifies the time slot the time slot the time slot the time slot or the time slot .

In particular embodiments by storing identifying information regarding what port a signal was received at the protocol type of the signal the Low Order OTN container that the signal was mapped to and the time slots that the signal was mapped to all this identifying information may be accessed any time Operator Specific is inspected. As such in particular embodiments this identifying information may be accessed without having to terminate and demap the Low Order OTN containers.

In particular embodiments the identifying information stored in Operator Specific may be stored in a particular configuration. For example port number section may include a portion of one byte of Operator Specific protocol type section may include one byte of Operator Specific ODU number section may include a portion of one byte of Operator Specific and time slot section may include a portion of one byte of Operator Specific . Accordingly the identifying information stored in Operator Specific for each signal may use four bytes of the thirty two bytes in Operator Specific . As such in particular embodiments Operator Specific may store identifying information for eight different signals mapped to the High Order OTN envelope.

Although illustrates Operator Specific as explicitly identifying the port where the signal was received in particular embodiments a PM TTI of a High Order OTN container or a TCMx TTI of a High Order OTN container may explicitly indentify the port where the signal was received.

In particular embodiments Operator Specific includes port number section ODU number section time slot section and protocol type section . In particular embodiments port number section of may be similar to port number section of ODU number section of may be similar to ODU number section of time slot section of may be similar to time slot section of and protocol type section of may be similar to protocol type section of .

In particular embodiments the identifying information stored in Operator Specific of may be stored in a different configuration than the identifying information that is stored in Operator Specific of . For example port number section may include a portion of one byte of Operator Specific ODU number section may include a portion of one byte of Operator Specific time slot section may include a portion of one byte of Operator Specific and the protocol type section may include a portion of one byte of Operator Specific . Accordingly the identifying information stored in Operator Specific for each signal may use two bytes of the thirty two bytes in Operator Specific . As such in particular embodiments Operator Specific may store identifying information for sixteen different signals mapped to the High Order OTN envelope.

Although illustrates Operator Specific as explicitly identifying the port where the signal was received in particular embodiments a PM TTI of a High Order OTN container or a TCMx TTI of a High Order OTN container may explicitly indentify the port where the signal was received.

As described above illustrate the Operator Specific as storing identifying information in particular configurations. In particular embodiments any other suitable configuration for storing identifying information may be used. For example more identifying information may be stored less identifying information may be stored or different identifying information may be stored. As another example the identifying information may only include the identity of the port where the signal was received. In such an example the Operator Specific may store identifying information for signals received from 255 different ports.

In particular embodiments Operator Specific includes time slot section protocol type section and ODU number section . In particular embodiments time slot section of may be similar to time slot section of protocol type section of may be similar to the protocol type section of and ODU number section of may be similar to ODU number section of .

In particular embodiments the identifying information stored in Operator Specific may not explicitly include the actual identity of the port where the signal was received. Instead in particular embodiments Operator Specific may include bytes that are associated with particular ports. For example bytes and of Operator Specific may be associated with port bytes and of Operator Specific may be associated with port and bytes and of Operator Specific may be associated with port . Accordingly in particular embodiments where a signal is received at port the identifying information for the signal may be stored in bytes and in order to identify the signal as having been received at port .

In particular embodiments such a storage configuration in Operator Specific may allow access to identifying information regarding the time slots that the signal was mapped to the protocol type of the signal and the Low Order OTN container that the signal was mapped to. Furthermore the storage of the identifying information in particular bytes may also allow the port where the signal was received to be implicitly identified. As such the port may be identified based on where the identifying information is located in Operator Specific .

In particular embodiments the identifying information stored in Operator Specific may be stored in a different configuration than the identifying information that is stored in Operator Specific of . For example time slot section may include a portion of one byte of Operator Specific protocol type section may include a portion of one byte of Operator Specific and ODU number section may include a portion of one byte of Operator Specific . Accordingly the identifying information stored in Operator Specific for each signal may use two bytes of the thirty two bytes in Operator Specific . As such in particular embodiments Operator Specific may store identifying information for sixteen different signals mapped to the High Order OTN envelope. Furthermore Operator Specific may implicitly identify fifteen different ports. In particular embodiments port is a first client port.

As described above illustrates Operator Specific as storing identifying information in particular configurations. In particular embodiments any other suitable configuration for storing identifying information may be used. For example more identifying information may be stored less identifying information may be stored or different identifying information may be stored.

Although illustrates Operator Specific as implicitly identifying the port where the signal was received in particular embodiments a PM TTI of a High Order OTN container or a TCMx TTI of a High Order OTN container may implicitly identify the port where the signal was received.

At step the signals are mapped to time slots of Low Order OTN containers. In particular embodiments the signals may be mapped to one or more time slots of one of a plurality of Low Order OTN containers. In particular embodiments the Low Order OTN container may be an ODU1 an ODU2 or an ODU3. At step the Low Order OTN containers are mapped to High Order OTN containers. In particular embodiments the High Order OTN container is an ODU of a higher level than the Low Order OTN container. In particular embodiments four Low Order OTN containers may be mapped to the High Order OTN container. At step the High Order OTN container is mapped to a High Order OTN envelope. In particular embodiments the High Order OTN is mapped to the High Order OTN envelope for communication over an optical transport network. In particular embodiments the High Order OTN envelope is an OTU of the same or higher level as the High Order OTN container.

At step for each signal information is inserted into the High Order OTN envelope. In particular embodiments the information may identify the port that the signal was received at the protocol type of the signal the Low Order OTN container that the signal was mapped to and one or more of the time slots that the signal was mapped to. In particular embodiments the information in the High Order OTN envelope may implicitly identify the port that the signal was received at. In particular embodiments the information in the High Order OTN envelope may explicitly identify the port that the signal was received at. In particular embodiments the information in the High Order OTN envelope may identify a first one of the time slots that the frame was mapped to. At step the method ends. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 75 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 75 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

