---

title: Use of compound binding to mSin3B that specifically binds to neuron restrictive silencer factor (NRSF)
abstract: 

wherein n represents 0 or 1; R, R, R, Rand Reach independently represent a hydrogen atom, a hydrocarbon group or a functional group; Y represents a single bond, a carbonyl group, —CONH—, —NHCO— or a sulfonyl group; and Z represents a nitrogen-containing heterocyclic group which may have a substituent, an amino group which may have a hydrocarbon group or an aromatic hydrocarbon group, or a nitrogen and oxygen-containing heterocyclic group which may have a substituent.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09206125&OS=09206125&RS=09206125
owner: NAGOYA CITY UNIVERSITY
number: 09206125
owner_city: Aichi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20110209
---
This application is a national stage of international application No. PCT JP2011 052710 filed on Feb. 9 2011 and claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 119 to Japanese Patent Application No. 2010 027066 filed on Feb. 10 2010 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to use of compounds binding to mSin3B that specifically binds to a neural restrictive silencer factor NRSF . More specifically the present invention relates to medicinal applications of compounds binding to mSin3B that specifically binds to NRSF.

Formation of normal cells tissues and organs in the body is achieved through expression of genes at appropriate times in appropriate places and in appropriate quantities. As a result normal function is exerted. For example neural genes must be expressed properly in neuronal cells but not in non neural cells. NRSE RE1 neural restrictive silencer element repressor element 1 is a silencer consisting of 21 base pairs and present in the vicinity of neuron specific genes. This silencer plays a central role in neuron specific transcriptional regulation of more than 30 genes for such substances as neurotransmitter synthetases ion channels neuronal growth associated proteins and so forth. It is said that approximately 1000 genes mainly neuron specific genes have this silencer. This silencer does not work in neuronal cells but suppresses expression of neuron specific genes in non neuronal cells to thereby assure expression of neuron specific genes in neuronal cells. It is also believed that this silencer is not only involved in the expression control of neuron specific genes but also involved in terminal differentiation of neuronal cells. It is NRSF REST neural restrictive silencer factor that has been identified as a transcriptional repression factor which binds to the above described NRSE RE1 and represses expression of neuron specific genes in non neuronal cells.

It is reported that abnormal expression of NRSF REST and genes targeted by NRSF REST is involved in neurodegenerative diseases such as Down s syndrome Alzheimer s disease and Huntington s disease and medulloblastoma.

Down s syndrome is a disease caused by chromosome 21 trisomy mutation. Examination of difference in genes between neural tissues of fetuses dying from Down s syndrome and those of normal fetuses revealed that expression of SCG10 a neuron specific growth associated protein gene and other genes targeted by NRSF REST such as decreased greatly in the former. On the other hand those proteins regulated by transcription factors other than NRSF REST were expressed normally Non Patent Document No. 1 .

Alzheimer s disease is a disease caused by accumulation of amyloid and neurofibrillary tangle and neuronal death. Expression of SCG10 was altered in Alzheimer s disease brains Non Patent Document No. 2 .

Medulloblastoma is the most malignant brain tumor in children. Expression levels of NRSF REST in medulloblastoma cells are very high. A recombinant protein REST VP16 that antagonizes NRSF REST and activates genes there targeted thereby promotes expression of neuronal genes and also activates the caspase cascade to thereby induce apoptosis. REST VP16 is a potential therapeutic Non Patent Document No. 3 .

Huntington s disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease manifesting choreic movement dementia and personality change as major symptoms. It is believed that abnormal huntingtin molecules with a repeat structure of glutamine residues form aggregates to thereby induce neurodegeneration. Wild type huntingtin binds to NRSF REST in the cytoplasm to regulate the binding of NRSF REST to NRSE RE1. On the other hand this control is lost in Huntington s disease thus neuronal genes are not expressed sufficiently Non Patent Document No. 4 .

Chronic pain caused by neuronal disorders neuropathic pain presents complicated pain symptoms in which positive symptoms pain hypersensitivity and allodynia a strong pain induced by a tactile stimulus and negative symptoms hypoesthesia are mixed. Since this abnormal pain shows resistance to anti inflammatory drugs and morphine it is regarded as intractable pain.

Recently Uchida et al. revealed that expression of the silencer factor NRSF REST is enhanced in primary sensory neurons after neuropathy to silence a group of pain associated genes Na1.8 MOP TRPM8 TRPA1 and K4.3 through epigenetic modification lowering of histone acetylation and induce C fiber hypoesthesia and morphine resistance which are characteristic of neuropathic pain Non Patent Documents Nos. 7 8 9 and 10 .

Further Naruse et al. revealed that the N terminal transcriptional repressor domain of NRSF REST recruits HDAC through co repressor mSin3 and that the C terminal transcriptional repressor domain recruits HDAC through CoREST and suggested that NRSF REST represses transcription by deactivation of the chromatin structure Non Patent Document No. 5 .

The present inventors have already analyzed the structure of a complex composed of the N terminal transcription repressor domain of NRSF associated with Huntington s disease medulloblastoma and neuropathic pain and the PAH1 domain of co repressor mSin3B which specifically binds to that domain Patent Document No. 1 and Non Patent Document No. 6 .

However no compounds have been reported so far which bind to mSin3B that specifically binds to neural restrictive silencer factor NRSF.

It is an object of the present invention to identify compounds which bind to the PAH1 domain of mSin3B that specifically binds to neural restrictive silence factor NRSF that is associated with Huntington s disease medulloblastoma and neuropathic pain. Such compounds may be used as lead compounds for therapeutics for Huntington s disease medulloblastoma and neuropathic pain.

The present inventors identified by NMR those compounds which bind to the PAH1 domain of mSin3B that specifically binds to neural restrictive silence factor NRSF. Further the present inventors subjected the above identified compounds to MTT assay using human medulloblastoma cell strains and found compounds which cause cell death and compounds which inhibit cell growth. Further hypoesthesia is observed in electrical stimulation induced paw withdrawal EPW test which evaluates pain threshold in response to C fiber specific electrical stimulation 5 Hz at the time of neuropathic pain and disappearance of morphine analgesia is observed in thermal paw withdrawal test which evaluates pain threshold against thermal stimulation. The present inventors found that some of the above identified compounds that cause recovery from such modulations. The present invention has been achieved based on these findings.

Substances capable of binding to the PAH1 domain of mSin3B for example compounds represented by formula I pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof or pharmacologically acceptable esters thereof may be used as a medicine in particular a prophylactic and or a therapeutic for diseases associated with abnormal expression of neural restrictive silencer factor NRSF REST or abnormal expression of genes targeted by NRSF REST.

The present specification encompasses the contents disclosed in the specification and or the drawings of Japanese Patent Application No. 2010 27066 based on which the present application claims priority.

The present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a substance capable of binding to the PAH1 domain of mSin3B. Specific examples of the substance capable of binding to the PAH1 domain of mSin3B include but are not limited to compounds represented by the following formula I pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof and pharmacologically acceptable esters thereof.

As the hydrocarbon group of R R Rand Rspecific examples include but are not limited to alkyl groups preferably C Cstraight chained or branched alkyl groups more preferably methyl group ethyl group normal propyl group isopropyl group etc. .

As the functional group of R R Rand R specific examples include but are not limited to alkoxy groups preferably C Cstraight chained or branched alkoxy groups more preferably methoxy group ethoxy group etc. sulfonyl group which may have a substituent nitro group halogen groups fluoro group chloro group bromo group iodo group etc. and sulfamoyl group which may have a substituent. As the substituents on sulfonyl group and sulfamoyl group specific examples include but are not limited to those substituents listed in Tables provided herein later.

As the hydrocarbon group of R specific examples include but are not limited to aromatic hydrocarbon groups preferably C Caromatic hydrocarbon groups more preferably phenyl naphthyl anthryl phenanthryl acenaphthylenyl biphenylyl indenyl etc. alkyl groups which may have a substituent preferably C Cstraight chained or branched alkyl groups more preferably methyl group ethyl group normal propyl group isopropyl group normal butyl group isobutyl group s butyl group t butyl group etc. and alkenyl groups which may have a substituent preferably C Cstraight chained or branched alkenyl groups more preferably vinyl group and 1 isopropenyl group . As the substituent on alkyl groups and alkenyl groups specific examples include but are not limited to those substituents listed in Tables provided herein later.

As the functional group of R specific examples include but are not limited to nitro group difluoromethoxy group amide groups which may have a substituent halogen groups fluoro group chloro group bromo group iodo group etc. alkoxy group which may have a substituent preferably C Cstraight chained or branched alkoxy groups more preferably methoxy group ethoxy group propoxy group isopropoxy group butoxy group isobutoxy group s butoxy group t butoxy group pentyloxy group hexyloxy group etc. acetoxy group cyano group sulfonyl group which may have a substituent sulfamoyl group which may have a substituent amino groups which may have a substituent piperidyl group which may have a substituent phenoxy group hydroxy group acyl groups triazolyl group imidazolyl group alkoxycarbonyl groups wherein the alkoxy group is preferably a C Cstraight chained or branched alkoxy group more preferably methoxy group or ethoxy group tetrazolyl group pyrazolyl group which may have a substituent piperidylcarbonyl group which may have a substituent pyrrolidinyl group alkylsulfanyl groups which may have a substituent wherein the alkyl group is preferably a C Cstraight chained or branched alkyl groups more preferably methyl group ethyl group normal propyl group isopropyl group normal butyl group isobutyl group s butyl group t butyl group etc. oxadiazolyl group which may have a substituent and heterocyclic groups which may have a substituent wherein the heterocyclic group is preferably a 5 10 membered heterocyclic group containing 1 3 heteroatoms e.g. sulfur atom oxygen atom nitrogen atom etc. more preferably 3H quinazoline 4 one 2 4 5 trihydroisothiazole 1 1 3 trione benzoimidazole and the like . As the substituent in amide groups alkoxy groups sulfonyl group sulfamoyl group amino groups piperidyl group pyrazolyl group piperidylcarbonyl group alkylsulfanyl groups oxadiazolyl group and heterocyclic groups and as the acyl group specific examples include but are not limited to those listed in Tables provided herein later.

As the substituent in the nitrogen containing heterocyclic group which may have a substituent in Z specific examples include but are not limited to saturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkyl groups such as methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl s butyl t butyl pentyl isopentyl neopentyl t pentyl 1 methylbutyl and hexyl unsaturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkenyl groups such as vinyl allyl 1 propenyl isopropenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 methylallyl and C Calkynyl groups such as ethynyl and 2 propynyl alicyclic hydrocarbon groups such as cyclohexyl 1 cyclohexenyl and cyclohexylidene and aromatic hydrocarbon groups such as benzyl tolyl and xylyl . The number of such substituent may be one or more.

As the nitrogen containing heterocyclic group in the nitrogen containing heterocyclic group which may have a substituent in Z specific examples include but are not limited to nitrogen containing 3 8 membered rings such as aziridine azetidine pyrrolidine piperidine hexamethyleneimine and heptamethyleneimine.

As the hydrocarbon group in the amino group which may have a hydrocarbon group or an aromatic hydrocarbon group in Z specific examples include but are not limited to saturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkyl groups such as methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl s butyl t butyl pentyl isopentyl neopentyl t pentyl 1 methylbutyl and hexyl unsaturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkenyl groups such as vinyl allyl 1 propenyl isopropenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 methylallyl and C Calkynyl groups such as ethynyl and 2 propynyl and alicyclic hydrocarbon groups such as cyclohexyl 1 cyclohexenyl and cyclohexylidene . As the aromatic hydrocarbon group such as benzyl tolyl xylyl and the like may be given. The amino group may have one or more hydrocarbon groups and or aromatic hydrocarbon groups.

As the substituent in the nitrogen and oxygen containing heterocyclic group which may have a substituent in Z specific examples include but are not limited to saturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkyl groups such as methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl s butyl t butyl pentyl isopentyl neopentyl t pentyl 1 methylbutyl and hexyl unsaturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkenyl groups such as vinyl allyl 1 propenyl isopropenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 methylallyl and C Calkynyl groups such as ethynyl and 2 propynyl alicyclic hydrocarbon groups such as cyclohexyl 1 cyclohexenyl and cyclohexylidene and aromatic hydrocarbon groups such as benzyl tolyl and xylyl . The number of such substituent may be one or more.

As the nitrogen and oxygen containing heterocyclic group in the nitrogen and oxygen containing heterocyclic group which may have a substituent in Z specific examples include but are not limited to morpholine.

Specific examples of the compound represented by formula I include but are not limited to 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl 3 methyl 4 nitrophenyl ketone 1 4 difluoromethoxy phenyl 2 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl ethan 1 one 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl 4 chloro 3 nitrophenyl ketone 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl 4 fluorophenyl ketone 2 2 6 dimethylmorpholin 4 yl N 2 chloro 4 fluorophenyl acetamide and 3 5 dimethyl 1 3 methyl 4 nitrobenzyl piperidine . The structures of 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl 3 methyl 4 nitrophenyl ketone compound 155 1 4 difluoromethoxy phenyl 2 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl ethan 1 one compound A28 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl 4 chloro 3 nitrophenyl ketone compound 5 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl 4 fluorophenyl ketone compound 15 2 2 6 dimethylmorpholin 4 yl N 2 chloro 4 fluorophenyl acetamide compound 23 and 3 5 dimethyl 1 3 methyl 4 nitrobenzyl piperidine compound NCR7 are described below.

3 5 Dimethylpiperidyl 3 methyl 4 nitrophenyl ketone may be purchased from SPECS Netherland Asinex Gold Russia or ASDI U.S.A. .

1 4 Difluoromethoxy phenyl 2 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl ethan 1 one may be purchased from Enamine Ukraine .

It should be noted that the compound represented by formula I may be a compound represented by the following formula Ia .

As the hydrocarbon group of R R R and R specific examples include but are not limited to alkyl groups preferably C Cstraight chained or branched alkyl groups more preferably methyl group ethyl group normal propyl group isopropyl group etc. .

As the functional group of R R R and R specific examples include but are not limited to alkoxy groups preferably C Cstraight chained or branched alkoxy groups more preferably methoxy group ethoxy group etc. sulfonyl group which may have a substituent nitro group halogen groups fluoro group chloro group bromo group iodo group etc. and sulfamoyl group which may have a substituent. As the substituents in sulfonyl group and sulfamoyl group specific examples include but are not limited to those substituents listed in Tables provided herein later.

As the hydrocarbon group of R specific examples include but are not limited to aromatic hydrocarbon groups preferably C Caromatic hydrocarbon groups more preferably phenyl naphthyl anthryl phenanthryl acenaphthylenyl biphenylyl indenyl etc. alkyl groups which may have a substituent preferably C Cstraight chained or branched alkyl groups more preferably methyl group ethyl group normal propyl group isopropyl group normal butyl group isobutyl group s butyl group t butyl group etc. and alkenyl groups which may have a substituent preferably C Cstraight chained or branched alkenyl groups more preferably vinyl group and 1 isopropenyl group . As the substituent in alkyl groups and alkenyl groups specific examples include but are not limited to those substituents listed in Tables provided herein later.

As the functional group of R specific examples include but are not limited to nitro group difluoromethoxy group amide groups which may have a substituent halogen groups fluoro group chloro group bromo group iodo group etc. alkoxy group which may have a substituent preferably C Cstraight chained or branched alkoxy groups more preferably methoxy group ethoxy group propoxy group isopropoxy group butoxy group isobutoxy group s butoxy group t butoxy group pentyloxy group hexyloxy group etc. acetoxy group cyano group sulfonyl group which may have a substituent sulfamoyl group which may have a substituent amino groups which may have a substituent piperidyl group which may have a substituent phenoxy group hydroxy group acyl groups triazolyl group imidazolyl group alkoxycarbonyl groups wherein the alkoxy group is preferably a C Cstraight chained or branched alkoxy group more preferably methoxy group or ethoxy group tetrazolyl group pyrazolyl group which may have a substituent piperidylcarbonyl group which may have a substituent pyrrolidinyl group alkylsulfanyl groups which may have a substituent wherein the alkyl group is preferably a C Cstraight chained or branched alkyl groups more preferably methyl group ethyl group normal propyl group isopropyl group normal butyl group isobutyl group s butyl group t butyl group etc. oxadiazolyl group which may have a substituent and heterocyclic groups which may have a substituent wherein the heterocyclic group is preferably a 5 10 membered heterocyclic group containing 1 3 heteroatoms e.g. sulfur atom oxygen atom nitrogen atom etc. more preferably 3H quinazoline 4 one 2 4 5 trihydroisothiazole 1 1 3 trione benzoimidazole and the like . As the substituent in amide groups alkoxy groups sulfonyl group sulfamoyl group amino groups piperidyl group pyrazolyl group piperidylcarbonyl group alkylsulfanyl groups oxadiazolyl group and heterocyclic groups and the acyl group specific examples include but are not limited to those listed in Tables provided herein later.

As the substituent in the nitrogen containing heterocyclic group which may have a substituent in Z specific examples include but are not limited to saturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkyl groups such as methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl s butyl t butyl pentyl isopentyl neopentyl t pentyl 1 methylbutyl and hexyl unsaturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkenyl groups such as vinyl allyl 1 propenyl isopropenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 methylallyl and C Calkynyl groups such as ethynyl and 2 propynyl alicyclic hydrocarbon groups such as cyclohexyl 1 cyclohexenyl and cyclohexylidene and aromatic hydrocarbon groups such as benzyl tolyl and xylyl . The number of such substituent may be one or more.

As the nitrogen containing heterocyclic group in the nitrogen containing heterocyclic group which may have a substituent in Z specific examples include but are not limited to nitrogen containing 3 8 membered rings such as aziridine azetidine pyrrolidine piperidine hexamethyleneimine and heptamethyleneimine.

As the hydrocarbon group in the amino group which may have a hydrocarbon group or an aromatic hydrocarbon group in Z specific examples include but are not limited to saturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkyl groups such as methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl s butyl t butyl pentyl isopentyl neopentyl t pentyl 1 methylbutyl and hexyl unsaturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkenyl groups such as vinyl allyl 1 propenyl isopropenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 methylallyl and C Calkynyl groups such as ethynyl and 2 propynyl and alicyclic hydrocarbon groups such as cyclohexyl 1 cyclohexenyl and cyclohexylidene . As the aromatic hydrocarbon group such as benzyl tolyl xylyl and the like may be given. The amino group may have one or more hydrocarbon groups and or aromatic hydrocarbon groups.

As the substituent in the nitrogen and oxygen containing heterocyclic group which may have a substituent in Z specific examples include but are not limited to saturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkyl groups such as methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl s butyl t butyl pentyl isopentyl neopentyl t pentyl 1 methylbutyl and hexyl unsaturated chain hydrocarbon groups e.g. C Calkenyl groups such as vinyl allyl 1 propenyl isopropenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl and 3 methylallyl and C Calkynyl groups such as ethynyl and 2 propynyl alicyclic hydrocarbon groups such as cyclohexyl 1 cyclohexenyl and cyclohexylidene and aromatic hydrocarbon groups such as benzyl tolyl and xylyl . The number of such substituent may be one or more.

As the nitrogen and oxygen containing heterocyclic group in the nitrogen and oxygen containing heterocyclic group which may have a substituent in Z specific examples include but are not limited to morpholine.

Those compounds represented by formula Ia may be prepared according to any of the methods disclosed in Schemes 1 to 4 in Preparation Examples provided later or according to the method with necessary modifications.

The present invention also provides compounds represented by formula Ia pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof or pharmacologically acceptable ester thereof.

As specific examples of the compound represented by formula Ia those compounds represented by any of the following formulas may be given.

Commercially available compounds which are represented by formula I excluding 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl 3 methyl 4 nitrophenyl ketone and 1 4 difluoromethoxy phenyl 2 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl ethan 1 one are listed in the Tables below.

Specific examples of the pharmacologically acceptable salt of the compound represented by formula I including formula Ia include but are not limited to alkaline metal salts such as sodium salt potassium salt or lithium salt alkaline earth metal salts such as calcium salt or magnesium salt organic amine salts such as cyclohexylamine salt trimethylamine salt or diethanolamine salt basic amino acid salts such as arginine salt or lysine salt and ammonium salts.

It is possible to convert the compound represented by formula I including formula Ia to a pharmacologically acceptable ester according to conventional methods. The types of the pharmacologically acceptable ester are not particularly limited. Any type of ester may be used as long as it has the same pharmaceutical applicability as the compound represented by formula I and is pharmacologically acceptable.

When the compound represented by formula I including formula Ia has asymmetric carbon s within its molecule racemic compounds and optically active compounds thereof are also included in the present invention.

Compounds represented by formula I including formula Ia pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof or pharmacologically acceptable esters thereof may occur as various solvates e.g. solvates formed with water methanol ethanol dimethylformamide ethyl acetate or the like. Pharmaceutical compositions comprising such solvates are also included in the present invention.

Compounds represented by formula I including formula Ia pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof or pharmacologically acceptable esters thereof bind to mSin3B that specifically binds to neural restrictive silencer factor NRSF . Therefore they may be used as a prophylactic and or a therapeutic for diseases associated with abnormal expression of neural restrictive silencer factor NRSF REST or abnormal expression of genes targeted by NRSF REST. Examples of diseases associated with abnormal expression of neural restrictive silencer factor NRSF REST or abnormal expression of genes targeted by NRSF REST include neurodegenerative diseases such as Down s syndrome Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease and Parkinson s disease cancer such as medulloblastoma atopic dermatitis diabetes cardiomyopathy neuropathic pain and so forth.

It has been described above that abnormal expression of NRSF REST or genes targeted by NRSF REST is involved in Down s syndrome Alzheimer s disease Huntington s disease medulloblastoma and neuropathic pain.

It has been reported that gene expression of an enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase which provides a rate limiting step in the synthetic pathway of dopamine which is believed to be depleted in Parkinson s disease patients brains is regulated by NRSF REST Regulation of human tyrosine hydroxylase gene by neuron restrictive silencer factor. Kim S M Yang J W Park M J Lee J K Kim S U Lee Y S Lee M A. BBRC 346 426 2006 Neuroscience Research 65 236 .

A report has been made that NRSF REST is a repressor of the expression of neuropilin 1 that is a receptor for semaphorin 3A Sema3A Neuron restrictive silencer factor NRSF REST is a transcriptional repressor of neuropilin 1 and diminishes the ability of semaphorin 3A to inhibit keratinocyte migration. Kurschat P Bielenberg D Rossignol Tallandier M Stahl A Klagsbrun M. J Biol Chem. 2006 Feb. 3 281 5 2721 9. Epub 2005 Dec. 5. . It has been reported that activation of Sema3A signals is effective in alleviating symptoms of atopic dermatitis this suggests that NRSF REST can be a novel target molecule for treating atopic dermatitis.

It has been reported that NRSF REST is involved in the regulation of expression of connexin36 essential for insulin secretion Critical role of the transcriptional repressor neuron restrictive silencer factor in the specific control of connexin36 in insulin producing cell lines. Martin D Tawadros T Meylan L Abderrahmani A Condorelli D F Waeber G Haefliger J A. J Biol Chem. 2003 Dec. 26 278 52 53082 9. Epub 2003 Oct. 16. . This suggests that NRSF REST can be a novel target molecule for treating diabetes.

It has been reported that mice expressing a dominant negative mutant of NRSF REST in their hearts exhibit dilated cardiomyopathy and highly likely to undergo arrhythmias or sudden death NRSF regulates the fetal cardiac gene program and maintains normal cardiac structure and function. K. Kuwahara Y. Saito M. Takano Y. Arai S. Yasuno Y. Nakagawa N. Takahashi Y. Adachi G. Takemura M. Horie Y. Miyamaoto T. Morisaki S. kuratomi A. Noma H. Fujiwara Y. Yoshimasa H. Kinoshita R. Kawakami I. Kishimoto M. Nakanishi S. Usami Y. Saito M. Harada K. Nakao The EMBO Journal 22 6310 6321 2003 . This suggests that NRSF REST can be a novel target molecule for treating cardiomyopathy.

A substance capable of binding to the PAH1 domain of mSin3B e.g. compounds represented by formula I including formula Ia pharmacologically acceptable salts thereof or pharmacologically acceptable esters thereof may be administered to a human or an animal in the form of a pharmaceutical preparation e.g. injection capsules tablets powder granules etc. formulated by conventional methods. For example such a pharmaceutical preparation may be administered orally at a daily dose of approximately 0.1 1000 mg kg body weight preferably at a daily dose of approximately 1 500 mg kg body weight as converted to the amount of the active ingredient. This dose may be administered once or may be divided into several times. However the dose and the number of times of administration may be appropriately altered depending on the symptoms and age of the patient the method of administration route and so forth. When the substance is formulated into an injection a carrier such as physiological saline may be used. When the substance is formulated into capsules tablets powder or granules excipients such as starch lactose sucrose or calcium carbonate binders such as starch paste gum arabic gelatin sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose or hydroxypropylcellulose lubricants such as magnesium stearate or talc and disintegrants such as starch agar crystalline cellulose calcium carbonate sodium hydrogencarbonate or sodium alginate may be used. The content of the active ingredient in pharmaceutical preparations may be varied between 1 to 99 by weight. For example when the pharmaceutical preparation takes the form of tablets capsules granules or powder the content of the active ingredient is preferably 5 80 by weight when the pharmaceutical preparation takes the form of injection the content of the active ingredient is preferably 1 10 by weight.

Hereinbelow the present invention will be described with reference to the following Examples. However the present invention is not limited to these Examples.

In Preparation Examples 1 to 22 the derivatives of 3 5 dimethyl 1 3 methyl 4 nitrobenzoyl piperidine shown below were synthesized.

3 5 Dimethylpiperidine 0.73 g and triethylamine 2.25 ml were dissolved in dichloromethane 20 ml . A solution of 3 methylbenzoylchloride 1.00 g in dichloromethane 10 ml was added dropwise at the freezing point. After stirring for 30 minutes at 0 C. the reaction solution was poured into water 100 ml and extracted with chloroform 50 ml . The organic layer was washed with saturated brine 100 ml dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and after filtration concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography developing solvent n hexane ethyl acetate 4 1 to obtain the subject compound NCR 1 cis form trans form 9 1 0.95 g yield 63 as a colorless oil. H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 0.76 1.86 10H m 2.15 2.23 0.9H m 2.36 3H s 2.44 2.49 0.9H m 3.08 0.1H m 3.20 0.1H m 3.32 3.34 0.1H m 3.63 3.65 0.9H m 7.14 1H d J 7.3 Hz 7.19 1H d J 7.3 Hz 7.20 1H s 7.26 1H t J 7.6 Hz MS EI m z 231 M .

The subject compound NCR 2 cis form trans form 9 1 yield 92 was obtained in the same manner as in Preparation Example 1 except that 4 nitrobenzoylchloride was used instead of 3 methylbenzoylchloride. Crude crystals of NCR 2 1.31 g were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain white crystals 0.78 g .

mp 120 125 C. H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 0.77 1.71 10H m 2.20 2.51 0.9H m 2.51 2.56 0.9H m 2.99 0.1H m 3.22 0.1H m 3.27 3.29 0.1H m 3.42 3.45 0.9H m 3.89 3.91 0.1H m 4.66 4.68 0.9H m 7.54 2H d J 8.7 Hz 8.27 2H d J 8.7 Hz MS EI m z 262 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 64.10 H 6.92 N 10.68. Found C 65.51 H 7.17 N 10.97.

The subject compound NCR 4 yield 89 was obtained in the same manner as in Preparation Example 1 except that 3 methylpiperidine was used instead of 3 5 dimethylpiperidine and that 4 nitrobenzoylchloride was used instead of 3 methylbenzoylchloride. Crude crystals of NCR 4 1.19 g were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain brown crystals 0.83 g .

mp 70.2 71.3 C. H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 0.79 1.5H d J 6.5 Hz 0.97 1.5H d J 6.5 Hz 1.17 1.89 5H m 2.47 0.5H m 2.67 0.5H m 2.84 0.5H m 2.96 0.5H m 3.42 0.5H m 3.49 0.5H m 4.51 1H m 7.54 2H d J 8.8 Hz 8.25 2H d J 8.5 Hz MS EI m z 248 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 62.89 H 6.50 N 11.28. Found C 62.78 H 6.42 N 11.28.

The subject compound NCR 4 yield 75 was obtained as a colorless oily material in the same manner as in Preparation Example 1 except that 3 methylpiperidine was used instead of 3 5 dimethylpiperidine.

The subject compound NCR 6 cis form trans form 9 1 yield 76 was obtained in the same manner as in Preparation Example 1 except that benzoylchloride was used instead of 3 methylbenzoylchloride. Crude crystals of NCR 6 1.18 g were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain white crystals 0.48 g .

mp 107.2 108.7 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 0.76 0.96 6H m 1.47 1.87 4H m 2.17 2.22 0.9H m 2.45 2.50 0.9H m 3.07 0.1H m 3.21 0.1H m 3.32 3.34 0.1H m 3.61 3.63 0.9H m 3.88 0.1H m 4.68 4.70 0.9H m 7.36 7.41 5H m MS EI m z 217 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 77.38 H 8.81 N 6.45. Found C 77.03 H 8.72 N 6.59.

The subject compound NCR 10 yield 76 was obtained as a colorless oil in the same manner as in Preparation Example 1 except that piperidine was used instead of 3 5 dimethylpiperidine and that benzoylchloride was used instead of 3 methylbenzoylchloride.

The subject compound NCR 11 cis form trans form 9 1 yield 77 was obtained in the same manner as in Preparation Example 1 except that 4 chlorobenzoylchloride was used instead of 3 methylbenzoylchloride. Crude crystals of NCR 11 1.11 g were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain white crystals 0.53 g .

mp 113.5 115.4 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 0.74 0.93 7H m 1.45 1.96 3H m 2.14 2.19 0.9H m 2.45 2.50 0.9H m 3.03 0.1H m 3.17 0.1H m 3.28 0.1H m 3.54 3.56 0.9H m 3.83 0.1H m 4.62 4.64 0.9H m 7.28 7.32 2H m 7.33 7.36 2H m MS EI m z 251 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 66.79 H 7.21 N 5.56. Found C 66.42 H 6.96 N 5.80.

3 Methyl 4 nitrobenzoic acid 1.00 g and N N dimethylformamide catalytic amount were dissolved in dichloromethane 20 ml . Oxalyl chloride 0.94 ml was added and the resultant mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 hour and 30 minutes. The reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure dissolved in dichloromethane 10 ml and added dropwise to a solution of 3 methylpiperidine 1.10 g and triethylamine 1.90 ml in dichloromethane 20 ml at the freezing point. After stirring for 20 hours at 0 C. the reaction solution was poured to water 100 ml and extracted with chloroform 50 ml . The organic layer was washed with saturated brine 100 ml dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and after filtration concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography developing solvent n hexane ethyl acetate 2 1 to obtain the subject compound NCR 3 1.37 g yield 94 . Crude crystals of NCR 3 1.37 g were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain white crystals 0.88 g .

mp 82.0 82.8 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 0.72 1.5H d J 6.5 Hz 0.89 1.5H d J 6.5 Hz 1.08 1.80 5H m 2.34 2.39 0.5H m 2.53 3H s 2.55 2.60 0.5H m 2.72 2.76 0.5H m 2.84 2.89 0.5H m 3.35 3.38 0.5H m 3.42 3.45 0.5H m 4.42 4.44 1H m 7.22 1H d J 8.3 Hz 7.26 1H s 7.90 1H d J 8.3 Hz MS EI m z 262 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 64.10 H 6.92 N 10.68. Found C 65.23 H 7.13 N 10.96.

The subject compound NCR 8 yield 89 was obtained in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that piperidine was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine. Crude crystals of NCR 8 1.22 g were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain white crystals 0.98 g .

mp 71.7 72.2 C. H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 1.52 2H s 1.69 4H s 2.61 3H s 3.29 2H s 3.71 2H s 7.33 1H d J 8.3 Hz 7.36 1H s 7.99 1H d J 8.4 Hz MS EI m z 248 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 62.89 H 6.50 N 11.28. Found C 62.29 H 6.40 N 11.17.

The subject compound NCR 9 yield 71 was obtained in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that diethylamine was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine. Crude crystals of NCR 9 0.93 g were re crystallized with n hexane chloroform to obtain brown crystals 0.63 g .

mp 74.5 76.0 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 1.13 3H m 1.26 3H m 2.63 3H s 3.24 2H m 3.36 2H m 7.34 7.37 2H m 8.01 1H d J 8.0 Hz MS EI m z 236 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 61.00 H 6.83 N 11.86. Found C 60.72 H 6.94 N 11.83.

The subject compound NCR 13 yield 90 was obtained as a yellow oil in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that dipropylamine was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine.

The subject compound NCR 14 yield 99 was obtained as a yellow oil in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that diisobutylamine was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine.

The subject compound NCR 15 yield 71 was obtained as a yellow oil in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that diisopropylamine was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine. Crude crystals of NCR 15 0.94 g were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain white crystals 0.60 g .

mp 107.6 109.7 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 1.16 6H m 1.54 6H m 3.54 1H m 3.71 1H m 7.26 1H d J 8.3 Hz 7.28 1H s 8.00 1H d J 8.3 Hz MS EI m z 264 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 63.62 H 7.63 N 10.60. Found C 63.47 H 7.47 N 10.66.

The subject compound NCR 16 yield 83 was obtained as a yellow oil in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that di sec butylamine was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine.

The subject compound NCR 17 yield 82 was obtained in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that cis 2 6 dimethylpiperidine was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine. Crude crystals of NCR 17 1.14 g were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain white crystals 0.79 g .

mp 99.7 100.5 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 1.29 6H m 1.55 1.74 6H m 1.84 1.89 2H m 7.30 1H d J 8.3 Hz 7.31 1H s 8.01 1H d J 8.3 Hz MS EI m z 276 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 65.20 H 7.30 N 10.14. Found C 64.97 H 7.01 N 10.07.

The subject compound NCR 18 yield 75 was obtained as white crystals in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that dibenzylamine was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine and that re crystallization with n hexane chloroform was carried out instead of silica gel flash column chromatography.

mp 105.8 108.7 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 2.58 3H s 4.35 2H s 4.72 2H s 7.12 2H d J 7.0 Hz 7.29 7.43 10H m 7.96 1H d J 8.5 Hz MS EI m z 360 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 73.32 H 5.59 N 7.77. Found C 73.10 H 5.95 N 8.08.

The subject compound NCR 19 yield 96 was obtained in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that pyrrolidine was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine. Crude crystals of NCR 19 1.13 g were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain yellow crystals 0.71 g .

mp 61.3 61.9 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 1.87 1.91 2H m 1.93 1.97 2H m 2.58 3H s 3.35 2H t J 6.7 Hz 3.61 2H t J 7.0 Hz 7.42 1H d J 8.3 Hz 7.46 1H s 7.96 1H d J 8.4 Hz MS EI m z 234 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 61.53 H 6.02 N 11.96. Found C 61.41 H 5.98 N 11.92.

The subject compound NCR 20 yield 92 was obtained in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that azepane was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine. Crude crystals of NCR 20 1.21 g were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain yellow crystals 0.69 g .

mp 62.5 63.8 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 1.62 1.65 6H m 1.82 1.85 2H m 2.62 3H s 3.36 2H t J 5.5 Hz 3.68 2H t J 5.5 Hz 7.36 1H d J 8.2 Hz 7.38 1H s 8.00 1H d J 8.3 Hz MS EI m z 262 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 64.10 H 6.92 N 10.68. Found C 63.84 H 6.76 N 10.70.

The subject compound NCR 21 yield 64 was obtained in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that azocane was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine. Crude crystals of NCR 21 0.89 g were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain yellow crystals 0.80 g .

mp 75.7 77.0 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 1.59 8H m 1.85 1.86 2H m 2.60 3H s 3.26 2H m 3.61 2H t J 6.5 Hz 7.30 1H d J 8.5 Hz 7.31 1H s 7.98 1H d J 8.3 Hz MS EI m z 276 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 65.20 H 7.30 N 10.14.

The subject compound NCR 22 yield 53 was obtained in the same manner as in Preparation Example 8 except that cyclohexylamine was used instead of 3 methylpiperidine. Crude crystals of NCR 22 0.70 g were re crystallized with n hexane chloroform to obtain white crystals 0.55 g .

mp 134.2 141.0 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 1.20 1.29 3H m 1.40 1.48 21H m 1.66 1.80 3H m 2.04 2.05 2H m 2.64 3H s 3.96 3.99 1H m 5.95 1H brs 7.66 1H d J 8.5 Hz 7.73 1H s 7.99 1H d J 8.6 Hz MS EI m z 262 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNO C 64.10 H 6.92 N 10.68. Found C 63.89 H 6.72 N 10.68.

3 Methyl 4 nitrobenzyl bromide 1.00 g 3 5 dimethylpiperidine 0.60 ml and potassium carbonate 0.90 g were dissolved in acetone 20 ml followed by heating under reflux for 6 hours. The reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure dissolved in chloroform 10 ml poured into water 100 ml and extracted with chloroform 50 ml . The organic layer was washed with saturated brine 100 ml dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and after filtration concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography developing solvent n hexane ethyl acetate 10 1 to obtain the subject compound NCR 7 0.70 g yield 61 as a yellow oil.

5 Chloro 2 nitrotoluene 1.00 g sodium sulfate nonahydrate 1.01 g sulfur 136.24 mg and sodium hydroxide 233.12 mg were dissolved in ethanol 20 ml and heated under reflux for 2 hours. The reaction solution was poured into 10 hydrochloric acid 100 ml and extracted with ethyl acetate 50 ml . The organic layer was washed with saturated brine 100 ml dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and after filtration concentrated under reduced pressure.

The residue was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography developing solvent n hexane ethyl acetate 15 1 to obtain the subject compound 1 0.74 g yield 75 as brown crystals.

The 3 methyl 4 nitrobenzenethiol 1 0.74 g obtained in the preceding step was dissolved in acetic acid 10 ml . Aqueous hydrogen peroxide 5 ml was added thereto and the resultant mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and 30 minutes. The reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure purified by silica gel flash column chromatography developing solvent n hexane ethyl acetate 20 1 to obtain the subject compound 2 0.64 g yield 68 as a yellow oil.

The 3 methyl 4 nitrobenzenesulfonic acid 2 0.64 g obtained in Step 2 was dissolved in thionyl chloride 1.2 ml and heated under reflux for 20 hours. The reaction solution was concentrated under reduced pressure and dissolved in dichloromethane 5 ml . This solution was added dropwise to a solution of 3 5 dimethylpiperidine 0.49 ml and triethylamine 1.20 ml in dichloromethane 10 ml at the freezing point. After stirring for 3 hours and 30 minutes at room temperature the reaction solution was poured into water 50 ml and extracted with chloroform 20 ml . The organic layer was washed with saturated brine 50 ml dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and after filtration concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by silica gel flash column chromatography developing solvent n hexane ethyl acetate 10 1 to obtain the subject compound NCR 12 155.3 mg yield 17 . Crude crystals of NCR 12 155.3 mg were re crystallized from n hexane chloroform to obtain brown crystals 99.2 mg .

mp 132.7 138.5 C. H NMR CDCl3 500 MHz ppm 0.88 0.89 6H m 1.58 1.81 6H m 3.76 2H d J 6.5 Hz 7.73 1H d J 8.0 Hz 7.75 1H s 8.06 1H d J 8.3 Hz MS EI m z 312 M Anal. Calcd. for CHNOS C 53.83 H 6.45 N 8.97. Found C 53.62 H 6.49 N 9.11.

The results are shown in . Since STD spectra were observed with the 11 ligands used in the measurement it was judged that these ligands interact with the protein.

Cell growth effects were examined on 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl 3 methyl 4 nitrophenyl ketone compound 155 and 1 4 difluoromethoxy phenyl 2 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl ethan 1 one compound A28 MTT assay using a human medulloblastoma cell strain .

Compounds 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl 3 methyl 4 nitrophenyl ketone compound 155 purchased from SPECS 1 4 difluoromethoxy phenyl 2 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl ethan 1 one compound A28 purchased from Enamine 

Cell DAOY human medulloblastoma cell strain provided by Kanno Department of Neurosurgery School of Medicine Yokohama City University 

Day 1 DAOY was plated on three 96 well plates at 5 10cells well. These three plates were for use on day 0 day 1 and day 3 respectively. As a medium 10 FBS containing DMEM was used.

Day 0 MTT assay was carried out using the plate for day 0 to measure the activity at the basal cell count. With respect to the plates for day 1 and day 3 the compound was added to give a concentration of 100 g ml as controls DMEM alone and DMEM containing DMSO solvent were used . Specifically the compound containing DMEM was prepared in advance and the compound was added to the plate through medium exchange. At this time FBS concentration was lowered to 5 in order to prevent the masking of the compound s effect due to excessive growth signals. Day 1 MTT assay was carried out using the plate for day 1. Day 3 MTT assay was carried out using the plate for day 3. Data Analysis Relative growths on day 1 and day 3 were calculated with the average of MTT activities Ab 570 nm on day 0 in the rows of wells for addition of the respective compounds being taken as 100.

Each experiment was performed in quadruple and each run was repeated three times. Relative values based on the values of day 0 were used to calculate data for n 12 wells and statistical tests were performed.

Test was by t test between the cell count with DMEM alone and the cell count with the compound or DMSO.

MIT Assay A technique for cell counting using the respiratory activity of mitochondria as an indicator. When the respiratory activity is high the value at Ab 570 nm is high it can be interpreted that the cell count is large.

DAOY was plated on three 96 well plates at 5 10cells well. These three plates were for use on day 0 day 1 and day 3 respectively. As a medium 10 FBS containing DMEM was used.

The medium in the plate for day 0 was exchanged with 5 FBS containing DMEM and cells were cultured therein for 30 minutes. Then MTT assay was carried out to measure the activity at the basal cell count.

With respect to the plates for day 1 and day 3 the medium was exchanged with 5 FBS containing medium and the compound was added simultaneously at this time as a control DMSO the solvent alone was added .

Relative growths on day 1 and day 3 were calculated with the average of MTT activities Ab 570 nm on day in the rows of wells for the respective compounds being taken as 100. Each experiment was performed in quadruple.

Compounds No. 5 No. 15 and No. 23 were added to cells at final concentrations of 100 g ml 10 g ml 1 g ml and 0.1 g ml and the relative growth rates of the cells were examined. With any of the compounds measured values of MTT assay showed a significant decrease compared to DMSO added cells when the concentration was 100 g ml. With compound No. 5 measured values of MTT assay did not change greatly during the experiment period therefore this compound is likely to have an inhibitory action on cell growth. On the other hand with compounds No. 15 and No. 23 almost all cells had died three days after their addition. Therefore it was suggested that these compounds have cytotoxicity .

Compounds NCR 6 NCR 7 NCR 11 NCR 13 NCR 14 and NCR 15 were added at a final concentration of 200 M ml or 20 M ml. When NCR 7 was added at 200 M ml cytotoxicity was observed .

A neuropathic pain model was created by partial sciatic nerve ligation using 6 10 week old C57BL male mice 20 25 g TEXAM Corporation Inoue et al. Nature Medicine 10 712 718 2004 . mSin3B compounds were dissolved in 100 DMSO. Immediately before administration the compound was diluted with artificial cerebrospinal fluid DMSO final concentration 0.5 and administered into the spinal subarachnoid space i.t. at 0.5 nmol 5 l. For control group DMSO 0.5 diluted with artificial cerebrospinal fluid was administered as a vehicle. In an experiment involving systemic administration of mSin3B compounds the compound was diluted with physiological saline DMSO final concentration 10 immediately before administration and administered at 5 mg kg intraperitoneally i.p. . For the control group in this experiment DMSO 10 diluted with physiological saline was administered as a vehicle. On the other hand morphine was dissolved in physiological saline and administered intraplantarly i.pl. at 30 nmol 20 l. ACU values from 10 to 60 minutes after morphine administration were calculated to evaluate of the analgesic effect of morphine. For behavioral analysis concerning pain 1 electrical stimulation induced paw withdrawal EPW test Matsumoto et al. J Pharmacol Exp Ther 318 735 740 2006 Ueda Mol Pain 4 11 2008 REVIEW to evaluate a pain threshold in response to C fiber specific electrical stimulation 5 Hz and 2 thermal paw withdrawal test Inoue et al. Nature Medicine 10 712 718 2004 to evaluate a pain threshold in response to thermal stimulation were used. For expression analysis of a group of pain associated genes Na1.8 and MOP the cell soma of primary sensory neuron dorsal root ganglia after nerve injury was used evaluation was made by quantitative real time PCR.

mSin3B compounds 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl 3 methyl 4 nitrophenyl ketone compound 155 1 4 difluoromethoxy phenyl 2 3 5 dimethylpiperidyl ethan 1 one compound A28 N 4 fluorophenyl methyl N 3 methylbutyl butane 1 4 diamide compound 106 

Three days after nerve injury mSin3B compound A28 was administered once followed by analysis of mRNA levels of a group of pain associated genes Na1.8 and MOP in dorsal root ganglia at 3 6 and 12 hours after the administration n 3 for each analysis . As a result a tendency was observed that the lowering of expression of Na1.8 and MOP after nerve injury is recovered by about 10 15 by treatment with A28 0.5 nmol i.t. . It was suggested that about 3 6 hours are needed for the effect to appear.

Subsequently the efficacies of mSin3B compounds A28 155 106 NC on hypoesthesia after nerve injury were evaluated by EPW test. Three days after nerve injury increase of pain threshold in response to C fiber stimulation i.e. hypoesthesia was observed in injury groups injury veh group n 5 injury A28 group n 6 injury 155 group n 6 injury 106 group n 6 compared to control group sham veh group n 6 . Further mSin3B compounds A28 155 106 NC or vehicle was administered once per day after behavioral analysis. As a result a tendency of recovery from hypoesthesia was observed starting 4 days after nerve injury 1 day after the start of administration in injury A28 group and injury 155 group this tendency became more marked 5 days after nerve injury 2 days after the start of administration . As a result of statistical analysis a significant difference was recognized between pain threshold values at 3 days after nerve injury and 5 days after nerve injury in injury A28 group and injury 155 group. On the other hand no effect on pain threshold was recognized in injury 106 group.

Subsequently in consideration of clinical indications mSin3B compound A28 or 155 was administered systemically intraperitoneally 5 mg kg and consecutively for 3 4 and 5 days after nerve injury followed by evaluation of the effect on pain threshold. Pain tests were performed prior to administration of the compound. As a result time dependent recovery from hypoesthesia was observed in both A28 and 155 administered groups n 3 for each group relative to the hypoesthesia at 3 days after nerve injury control group .

Further efficacies of mSinB3 compounds A28 155 106 NC on morphine resistance after nerve injury were evaluated using thermal paw withdrawal test. Administration of mSin3B compounds was started 3 days after nerve injury and after 5 days after nerve injury 2 days after the start of administration peripheral morphine 30 nmol i.pl. analgesia was analyzed sham veh group n 6 injury veh group n 5 injury A28 group n 6 injury 155 group n 6 injury 106 group n 3 . The results revealed that compared to sham veh group effect of morphine analgesia disappeared in injury veh group but morphine analgesia almost equivalent to that in sham veh group was obtained in injury A28 group. In injury 155 group significant recovery of morphine analgesia was recognized. On the other hand morphine analgesia was hardly recognized in injury 106 group. These results are shown in .

mRNA levels of Na1.8 in dorsal root ganglia after administration of mSin3B compound A28 or 155 0.5 nmol i.t. were evaluated by a quantitative real time method revealing that compound 155 exhibited a remarkable inhibitory effect on the lowering of expression of Na1.8 due to nerve injury however A28 did not exhibit a significant change sham veh group n 3 injury veh group n 3 injury A28 group n 3 injury 155 group n 2 .

All the publications patents and patent applications cited herein are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

A substance capable of binding to the PAH1 domain of mSin3B e.g. a compound represented by formula I pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof or pharmacologically acceptable ester thereof may be used as a medicine especially as a prophylactic and or a therapeutic for diseases associated with abnormal expression of neural restrictive silencer factor NRSF REST or abnormal expression of genes targeted by NRSF REST.

