---

title: Methods, devices, and mediums associated with content-searchable media
abstract: Streaming media may include a plurality of visual objects. User-selectable fields may be associated with the visual objects. In response to receiving a selection from the user-selectable fields, a search criteria associated with the corresponding visual object may be identified. A method, device, or medium may be associated with a request for search results based on the search criteria. Information associated with the search results may be displayed to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08935300&OS=08935300&RS=08935300
owner: Intellectual Ventures Fund 79 LLC
number: 08935300
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110103
---
Known electronic devices may be used for personal and or business purposes. For example a personal and or a business computer may be used to access the Internet a television may be used to watch a program or a smart phone may be used to initiate a phone call or to exchange a text message or an email message.

Each known device may have its own display and corresponding controller. Consequently a user of such known devices may accumulate a plurality of controllers and a plurality of corresponding displays within the process of accumulating such known electronic devices. Moreover such known electronic devices may process different types or the same types of media depending on the source of the media and or the intended use of the media.

Network may be operatively coupled to an external network via a network interface such as a network gateway . External network may comprise a private intranet or a public network such as the Internet. External network may be operatively coupled to a service provider such as a media service provider to network . External network may comprise a network associated with or operated by service provider . Service provider may comprise a media service provider such as a cable network provider a satellite network provider a cellular network provider a telephone network provider a broadband network provider or any combination thereof. Network gateway may comprise a router or a modem that operatively couples network to external network .

Devices may include media system and one or more controllers . In one example media system may comprise a home entertainment apparatus a gaming system a media player a customer premise node a set top box or any combination thereof. Media system may comprise a computing device operatively coupled to a television set. In another example media system may be integrated into a multi media television.

Controllers may include a keyboard a pointing device e.g. a mouse a remote controller or any combination thereof. Controllers may be configured to control any of devices such as media system . Controllers may be configured to communicate with devices via wired or wireless communications such as via Ethernet infrared radio wave cellular optical BLUETOOTH registered trademark WI FI registered trademark other types of communication signals and networks or any combination thereof.

In another example devices may include a personal computer a mobile telephone e.g. a smart phone a stereo system an environmental control device or any combination thereof. Environmental control device may be configured to control or to operate other devices or systems. For example environmental control device may be configured to automate or to control a thermostat an alarm system lighting or the like or any combination thereof associated with a home or other building.

Devices may be operatively coupled to media system via network . Network may be a wired network a wireless network or any combination thereof. For example personal computer may be operatively coupled to media system via an Ethernet based wired network environmental control device may be operatively coupled to media system via a wireless network such as WI FI and or stereo system may be operatively coupled to media system via a Bluetooth network. Those of ordinary skill in the art readily will understand that in different examples any or all of devices may be operatively coupled to media system via wired or wireless communication couplings.

As devices perform computer or processing functions media system may treat the functions as occurring on a processor of media system . Media system may use controllers to interact with devices operatively coupled to media system as if devices were physically interacting with media system . Each of devices may monitor and record any changes in their screen s appearance compress and encrypt information associated with such changes and send the compressed and encrypted information to media system . Media system then may decrypt and decompress the information and cause the information to be displayed to the user via a single display device. Devices may send media e.g. audio and or video to media system . Media system may send data or operational commands to devices operatively coupled to media system to control respective functions of devices .

Controller interface may provide media system with an interface to one or more controllers such as controllers . The controllers may be configured to provide user control of media system . Controller interface may comprise a radio transceiver or an optical transceiver for wireless communications with the controllers or may communicate via a cable or wired communication or any combination thereof. One or more of memory and storage may be configured to store instructions associated with an application program.

Processing device may be configured to execute stored instructions. Processing device may access memory and or storage to run store and archive one or more programs. Memory and or storage may comprise RAM ROM or other types of storage or memory devices.

Processing device may be configured to manage and to control any or all of devices . Processing device further may be configured to receive input or commands from a user via controller interface and one or more controllers. Communication to the user may be provided by displaying information on display . Display may be a display that identifies the operational status of media system . In one example display may comprise a television a monitor a smart phone a plasma screen a LCD screen a projection screen or the like or any combination thereof. Display device may be configured to display media in addition to the operational status or other types of media system information.

In one example media system may comprise a set top box or stand alone device. In another example media system may be an integral part of a television or a multi media processing apparatus.

Media system may comprise a first network interface configured to interface with a network . In one example and similar to network depicted in network may be operatively coupled with a plurality of devices such as devices . Media system further may comprise a second network interface configured to interface or communicate with external network such as the Internet. Information received through first network interface may be processed and then transmitted through second network interface and vice versa. Media or media content transmitted or streamed from external network may be forwarded to network or presented on media display .

Controller interface may be configured to provide an interface to one or more controllers such as controllers . The controllers may be configured to provide user control of media system . One or more of memory and storage may be configured to store instructions associated with an application program.

Processing device may be configured to execute stored instructions. Processing device may be configured to access memory and or storage to run store and archive one or more application programs. The programs may be run responsive to one or more commands or instructions received from the controllers or responsive to information received over one or both of network and external network .

Display interface may interface with media display . Media display may be configured to display media in addition to an operational status or other types of information associated with media system . The information may be displayed together with the media being presented to the user. Media display may comprise a television a monitor a smart phone a plasma screen a LCD screen a projection screen other types of display or any combination thereof. One or more controllers may be configured to provide user control of media display or to utilize media display as a user interface of media system .

In one example media system may comprise a set top box or stand alone device operatively coupled to media display . In another example media system may be an integral part of media display or may be housed in a common containment structure.

Media system may be configured to display a plurality of icons such as user selectable icons. Icons may represent a plurality of devices such as devices including a television a personal computer PC a smart phone a home controller an audio system or any combination thereof. The plurality of electronic devices may be operatively coupled to a network such as network . Icons may comprise a plurality of computer generated graphical icons presented on a media display.

Icons may be located at the bottom of media as depicted in however those of ordinary skill in the art readily will understand that icons may be located any place on a media display or television screen including the side top or center portions of the display. In one example icons may be displayed together with media . In other examples icons may overlap media or may replace media on media system such that either one of icons or media may be displayed at any given time.

A pointing device may be configured to select one or more icons . Pointing device may be controlled by one or more controllers such as controllers . Pointing device may comprise a computer generated graphical icon or may be an optical pointing device such as an LED or laser pointer. In one example media system may comprise a media display configured with optical receptors that detect light transmitted from pointing device in order to identify a selected icon based on the position of the light on media system .

Selection of one or more icons may cause media system to display media content associated with the corresponding electronic device of the selected icon. For example media may comprise a television program associated with a television set. In an example in which the television icon has not previously been selected and the associated media is playing on media system the television icon may not appear in the listing of icons . In another example the selected icon may be temporarily disabled or dimmed pending selection of another icon corresponding to a different electronic device.

Media system may be configured to replace the presentation of the television program with a representation of a different electronic device in response to a selection of one or more icons associated with the different electronic device such as the personal computer PC . Media that is presented to the user may reflect the most recently selected icon and accordingly the corresponding electronic device.

Media system may detect movement of pointing device for example as a controller is manipulated by a user. Icons may be displayed as a result of the detected movement. Otherwise icons may not be visible or may become dimmed when media system fails to detect any movement of pointing device for a predetermined amount of time. Similarly pointing device may become visible or invisible according to the detected operation or absence of operation of a controller which may operate pointing device .

Media system may omit the associated icons from being presented or may cause the corresponding icons to be invisible disabled or dimmed in response to detecting that one or more of the corresponding electronic devices are not operatively coupled with media system . Differentiating icons associated with electronic devices that are not operatively coupled to media system may indicate an availability of the electronic devices for viewing or controlling. Media system may be configured to display the corresponding icon or otherwise indicate that the electronic device may be available to the user in response to identifying a restoration of connectivity or upon initialization of the corresponding electronic device.

Pointing device may be configured to select one or more icons . Similarly pointing device may be configured to select one or more fields in primary display . For example when primary display represents a personal computer pointing device may be configured to select a desktop folder a menu item or another field. One or more controllers such as controllers may be configured to operate the personal computer through primary display as if the one or more controllers are directly operating the personal computer. Similarly any of the electronic devices displayed by media system may be operated by media system through the graphical representation provided as primary display .

Primary display may switch to a graphical representation of the electronic device associated with the selected icon. For example primary display of the personal computer screen displayed in may be replaced with a screen shot or graphical representation of a smart phone user interface.

In addition to primary display media system also may be configured to present secondary display . Secondary display may be a relatively smaller window which overlays primary display or may be provided as a picture in picture mode of operation. In one example primary display and a second display such as secondary display may be shown or presented as split screens on media system .

In one example or mode of operation secondary display may comprise a television program a streaming media or other type of media associated with or received by a television set. A television program may be presented as secondary display in response to a selection of one or more icons as primary display . In response to selection of a different icon media system may replace primary display with media content associated with the different icon and secondary display may continue to present the television program for example. Media system may be configured to turn on or to turn off secondary display . Media system may be configured to present the media content associated with a television program as primary display in response to a selection of the television icon or in response to secondary display being turned off.

The user may determine how the contents of the corresponding device will be displayed. The selection of icons may include a designation of the corresponding electronic device to be presented as primary display or secondary display . For example the smart phone icon may be selected to replace the representation of the personal computer as primary display or the smart phone icon may be selected to replace the media content of secondary display e.g. the television program. In one example a plurality of secondary displays may be selected for simultaneous or concurrent display by media system . The plurality of secondary displays may be presented together with primary display .

In one example content searchable media may be provided as streaming media from a media content or service provider. Content searchable media may comprise data broadcast from a media provider to a plurality of subscribers or customer end nodes. Content searchable media may be received by the plurality of subscribers substantially at the same time such as in a television broadcast or a live performance or event being simulcast. The media content of content searchable media may be received continuously by the subscribers over the duration of the broadcast performance or event. Content searchable media may be pre recorded or comprise a motion picture broadcast to the plurality of customers from a media provider. Streaming media may be processed for content searchable media by a media system located at the customer premise during receipt of streaming media.

Content searchable media may be associated with one or more user selectable fields . User selectable fields may correspond with a visual object of content searchable media . User selectable fields may be displayed together with content searchable media .

User selectable fields may be displayed as a result of detected movement of a pointing device . Otherwise user selectable fields may not be visible or may become dimmed in response to a failure to detect the movement of pointing device for a predetermined amount of time. Similarly pointing device may be configured to become visible or invisible in response to the detected movement or absence of movement of a controller such as controllers . An alert notification may be displayed by apparatus to alert the user of an availability of user selectable fields for selection. Alert notification may be displayed in a corner of apparatus for example or as a flashing light on a controller.

In one example user selectable fields may not be visible to the user but nevertheless may be selectable in response to pointing device being located generally over visual object . In another example user selectable fields may be displayed in response to an identification of visual object . In yet another example user selectable fields may become visible in response to the pointing device passing over visual object .

In the example depicted in visual object may comprise an image of a mountain such as an image of Mount St. Helens. Apparatus may be configured to display a tag or descriptive name of visual object in response to pointing device being placed over visual object . The name of visual object may be displayed as part of user selectable field . In response to the selection of user selectable field apparatus may be configured to cause information related to visual object to be displayed. Placing pointing device over or in proximity to user selectable field or using pointing device to select e.g. click user selectable field may result in user selectable field being selected. In one example user selectable field may be selected by a key stroke or numerical selection on a controller.

The information associated with visual object may be displayed in a window such as a text box. Window may include text hyperlinks images or media objects in it. Window may be a relatively smaller window which overlays content searchable media such as in a picture in picture mode of operation. In another example content searchable media and window may be displayed as split screens on apparatus . In yet another example the display of content searchable media may be replaced with the information of window on apparatus . Instead of or in addition to displaying the information in window the information may be caused to be played out as audio content.

User selectable fields may comprise a hyperlink embedded into streaming media. The hyperlinks may be embedded in the graphic or visual objects of the streaming media such as the image of Mount St. Helens. One or more user selectable fields may comprise hyperlinks. The hyperlinks may be embedded in content searchable media before being received from the media provider. The media provider or a third party distributor may embed the hyperlinks into content searchable media .

In one example one or more user selectable fields may be generated based on an image recognition analysis of visual object . For example a media system may comprise a processing device configured to generate user selectable fields after receiving the media from the media provider. Visual object may be compared with a library of available images stored locally or over a network to identify a closest match. A tag or descriptive name associated with visual object may then be displayed as one of user selectable fields . The media may be transmitted by the media provider without including any hyperlinks or user selectable fields . The media may become content searchable after being processed by the media system. User selectable fields may indicate that corresponding visual objects may be associated with different search criteria.

A selected field may be identified from one or more user selectable fields of streaming media content. Search criteria may be associated with media content . In response to identifying the selected field a search for information based on the search criteria may be requested. Information associated with the search results may be displayed together with corresponding media content . For example information may be displayed as text that overlays media content . An image of media content may be minimized as a picture in picture with information .

An image of media content may be temporarily paused in response to displaying information . The image may be paused in response to receiving a user input. For example the user input may comprise the selection of a field in media content . Pausing the image may allow for the user to review or initiate further selections from information without missing any of media content that would otherwise be played. Media content may continue to play from where media content was paused in response to apparatus receiving a further command from the user or after timing out. In the case of a live feed or streaming media the playback of media content may be delayed after the pause. For example media content may be temporarily stored while being paused and then played from memory in a delayed state of playback which follows receipt of the streaming media.

A user may select a field or hyperlink associated with media content such as a television program causing information to be displayed on apparatus . Information may comprise search results such as one or more pages from the World Wide Web WWW . A source for providing information may be identified in response to receiving a selection from information which may comprise a list of search results. In one example the source may comprise the one or more WWW pages.

Apparatus may be caused to show information concurrently with a display of media content such as a television program. Apparatus may be configured to switch to a graphical representation of the electronic device associated with a selected icon in response to icon being selected. For example apparatus may replace information with the image of the television program in response to a selection of television icon with a pointing device .

A processing device such as processing device or processing device may be configured to receive a selection of a field corresponding with a visual object of streaming media presented on a display device or media display. The processing device may be configured to identify in response to receiving the selection of a field search criteria associated with the corresponding visual object and to request search results based on the search criteria. The processing device further may be configured to cause the search results to be displayed together with the media or the streaming media.

A plurality of devices such as devices may be identified on the display device. A selection from the plurality of devices may cause an image of the streaming media to be replaced by functional data associated with a corresponding selected device. The processing device may be configured to transfer functional data between the plurality of devices.

Streaming media may be received from a first data source and the search results may be received from a second data source. For example one or both of the first and second data sources may comprise a media provider a media player a live video feed a processing device a database a media storage device a website a search engine or any combination thereof. In one example the processing device may be configured to cause a list of search engines to be displayed and the search results may be requested from a selected search engine such as an Internet search engine.

In response to the selection of search provider the media system may obtain the search results for media content from search provider . In one example the selection of search provider may be received prior to the media system receiving the media e.g. streaming media. The selection of search provider may be completed during configuration of the media system or as part of an order or request for services from the media provider. In one example configuration tool may be displayed the first time the user requests search results based on user selectable media content.

Controller interface may be configured to interact with one or more controllers such as controllers of . Network interface may be configured to manage interfaces with one or more networks such as network and external network of . User interface may be configured to control the features of a media system such as media system of .

Device interface may be configured to communicate with one or more devices such as devices of . Device interface may be configured to integrate a plurality of electronic devices with the media system. Display interface may be configured to present information to a display device such as display or media display of . Applications may include instructions for or be configured to process media provide entertainment features manage devices and networks perform other functions or any combination thereof.

In one example applications may comprise a remote computer access protocol to manage electronic devices over the network. The remote computer access protocol may be a peer to peer protocol or a server based protocol. In a server based protocol one of the electronic devices or the media system may act as a server. The remote computer access protocol may provide users with a graphical interface to another computing device. The protocol may utilize ITU T T.120 series application sharing protocols. The coupled electronic devices and the media system may run a sender protocol and a receiver protocol.

At operation the media content may be identified during a presentation of the streaming media on a display. The media content may be identified based on optical recognition of the streaming media. In one example the media content may be identified from a sub title of the streaming media.

At operation the one or more fields may be generated based on the identification of the media content. In one example the one or more user selectable fields may be embedded into the streaming media. The one or more user selectable fields or hyperlinks may be embedded prior to the streaming media being received at operation .

At operation user input may be received of one or more user selectable fields corresponding with media content of the streaming media. The one or more fields may visually overlay the media content.

At operation search criteria associated with the media content may be identified. The search criteria may be associated with the media content in a look up table. The search criteria may be provided as tags associated with the one or more user selectable fields. In one example the visual written description of the one or more user selectable fields may provide the search criteria.

At operation a search provider may be identified to perform the search. The search provider may be identified or otherwise based on a configurable selection tool. In one example the search provider may be identified in the configurable selection tool prior to presenting the streaming media on a display device.

At operation a search for information based on the search criteria may be requested. The search information may be requested in response to receiving the user input at operation .

At operation the information from the search may be presented on a display device. In one example the information may be presented on the display device together with the streaming media.

The exemplary process depicted by and the associated operations may be performed by one or more processing devices such as processing device or processing device of respectively. In one example a media provider such as media provider may be configured to distribute the media content from one or more memory devices e.g. memory and or storage of to one or more customer nodes or endpoints. The media content may be distributed as streaming video. The one or more endpoints may comprise a distributed network of user devices configured to receive and play the media content.

Media provider may be configured to distribute media to endpoint . In one example the distributed media comprises streaming video. Media provider may receive a data request from endpoint . The data request may indicate that a field in the streaming video has been selected. Responsive to receiving the data request media provider may transmit information corresponding to the media content of the streaming video. In one example the field may be embedded in the streaming video as a hyperlink before being transmitted to endpoint . The field may be transmitted together with the streaming video. In another example the information may be transmitted separately from the streaming video.

The information may be stored in one or more memory devices . Media provider may be configured to associate a selected field with the stored information and identify the information based on the association. Media provider may further be configured to perform an Internet search for the information. Media provider may comprise one or more processing devices configured to process or perform operations. Instructions for performing the operations may be stored in one or more memory devices . One or more processing devices may be configured to execute the instructions.

One or more network interfaces may be configured to interface with a second network . Second network may comprise a private network of databases or search engines. Second network may comprise a public network such as the Internet. In one example media provider may be configured to request the search from search provider associated with second network . The search provider may comprise a third party search engine designated or requested by endpoint .

In one example media provider may be configured to operate as a router a gateway or an interface between first network and second network . Endpoint may request the search from search provider after media provider routes the request.

The system and apparatus described above may use dedicated processor systems micro controllers programmable logic devices or microprocessors that may perfoim some or all of the operations described herein. Some of the operations described above may be implemented in software and other operations may be implemented in hardware. One or more of the operations processes or methods described herein may be performed by an apparatus device or system similar to those as described herein and with reference to the illustrated figures.

The processing device may execute instructions or code stored in memory. The memory may store data as well. The processing device may include but may not be limited to an analog processor a digital processor a microprocessor multi core processor processor array network processor etc. The processing device may be part of an integrated control system or system manager or may be provided as a portable electronic device configured to interface with a networked system either locally or remotely via wireless transmission.

The processor memory may be integrated together with the processing device for example RAM or FLASH memory disposed within an integrated circuit microprocessor or the like. In other examples the memory may comprise an independent device such as an external disk drive storage array or portable FLASH key fob. The memory and processing device may be operatively coupled together or in communication with each other for example by an I O port network connection etc. such that the processing device may read a file stored on the memory. Associated memory may be read only by design ROM by virtue of permission settings or not. Other examples of memory may include but may not be limited to WORM EPROM EEPROM FLASH etc. which may be implemented in solid state semiconductor devices. Other memories may comprise moving parts such a conventional rotating disk drive. All such memories may be machine readable in that they may be readable by a processing device.

Operating instructions or commands may be implemented or embodied in tangible forms of stored computer software also known as a computer program or code . Programs or code may be stored in a digital memory that may be read by the processing device. Computer readable storage medium or alternatively machine readable storage medium may include all of the foregoing types of memory as well as new technologies that may arise in the future as long as they may be capable of storing digital information in the nature of a computer program or other data at least temporarily in such a manner that the stored information may be read by an appropriate processing device. The term computer readable may not be limited to the historical usage of computer to imply a complete mainframe mini computer desktop or even laptop computer. Rather computer readable may comprise storage medium that may be readable by a processor processing device or any computing system. Such media may be any available media that may be locally and or remotely accessible by a computer or processor and may include volatile and non volatile media and removable and non removable media.

A program stored in a computer readable storage medium may comprise a computer program product. For example a storage medium may be used as a convenient means to store or transport a computer program. For the sake of convenience the operations may be described as various interconnected or coupled functional blocks or diagrams. However there may be cases where these functional blocks or diagrams may be equivalently aggregated into a single logic device program or operation with unclear boundaries.

Having described and illustrated the principles of a preferred embodiment it should be apparent that the embodiments may be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. We claim all modifications and variation coming within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

