---

title: Leveraging passive networks
abstract: System and methods for leveraging passive networks are disclosed. In one embodiment, a method includes receiving, from a first data source, a first data descriptor, wherein the first data descriptor identifies an instance of contact between at least two persons. The method also includes determining a connection between the at least two persons, wherein the connection is based on an instance of contact between the at least two persons identified in the first data descriptor. The method further includes determining, with a processor, a first contact count for the connection, the first contact count based on a number of instances of contact between the at least two persons associated with the connection. The method also includes calculating, with the processor, a connection score for the connection, wherein the connection score is based at least in part on the first contact count.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08572242&OS=08572242&RS=08572242
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08572242
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20110104
---
The invention relates generally to analyzing information in networks and more particularly to leveraging passive networks.

Due to the proliferation and accessibility of information and media an individual is able to develop contacts with other individuals across a wide array of technological platforms. Moreover as the number and frequency of the contacts change the complexity of the social network developed through the contacts rises exponentially. Understanding and using these complex networks remains a challenge.

In accordance with particular embodiments of the present disclosure the disadvantages and problems associated with leveraging passive networks.

In accordance with a particular embodiment of the present disclosure a method includes receiving from a first data source a first data descriptor wherein the first data descriptor identifies an instance of contact between at least two persons. The method also includes determining a connection between the at least two persons wherein the connection is based on an instance of contact between the at least two persons identified in the first data descriptor. The method further includes determining with a processor a first contact count for the connection the first contact count based on a number of instances of contact between the at least two persons associated with the connection. The method also includes calculating with the processor a connection score for the connection wherein the connection score is based at least in part on the first contact count.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure a system includes a first data source operable to transmit a first data descriptor wherein the first data descriptor identifies an instance of contact between at least two persons. The system also includes an analysis module operable to receive the first data descriptor from the first data source. The analysis module is also operable to determine a connection between the at least two persons wherein the connection is based on an instance of contact between the at least two persons identified in the first data descriptor. The analysis module is further operable to determine with a processor a first contact count for the connection the first contact count based on a number of instances of contact between the at least two persons associated with the connection and calculate with the processor a connection score for the connection wherein the connection score is based at least in part on the first contact count.

In accordance with yet another embodiment of the present disclosure a non transitory computer readable medium is encoded with logic the logic operable when executed on a processor to receive a first data descriptor from a first data source wherein the first data descriptor identifies an instance of contact between at least two persons. The logic is also operable to determine a connection between the at least two persons wherein the connection is based on an instance of contact between the at least two persons identified in the first data descriptor. The logic is further operable to determine a first contact count for the connection the first contact count based on a number of instances of contact between the at least two persons associated with the connection and calculate a connection score for the connection wherein the connection score is based at least in part on the first contact count.

Technical advantages provided by particular embodiments of the present disclosure include determining a connection path between two or more persons. Particular embodiments may determine a shortest path between two persons and or a path with the strongest relationships between two persons. In a sales operation this may facilitate an introduction between two persons who were previously unknown to each other. For example a sales person may wish to be introduced to a manager at a target company. Utilizing particular embodiments relationships between various connections may be determined to allow the sales person to identify the desired contact. Thus the sales person may be able to contact one or more persons in a relationship path to obtain an introduction to the manager. In particular embodiments a user may query persons that have a particular subject matter expertise. For example an engineer may need to find another engineer that has a particular expertise. Utilizing particular embodiments the engineer may query for the particular subject matter expertise and relationships between various connections may be determined to find a person with the searched for subject matter expertise. As another example a user may query for a particular service provider such as for instance a lawyer. Utilizing particular embodiments relationships between the user and various connections may be determined to allow the user to identify and or contact a lawyer. Particular embodiments may additionally be able to determine a person s immediate or remote connections and identify the relative strength of those connections. This may facilitate the investigation of fraud rings. For example an organization may suspect a person of committing fraud and may utilize particular embodiments of the present disclosure to determine who the suspected person was communicating with and the relative strength of those contacts. As a result particular embodiments of the present disclosure may provide numerous technical advantages. Nonetheless particular embodiments may provide some none or all of these technical advantages and may provide additional technical advantages.

Data sources and which may be individually referred to as data source or collectively as data sources represent data storage devices and or information services that store generate and or transmit data descriptors to other components of information management system . Data sources represent any device and or service capable of storing retrieving generating transmitting and or processing any suitable form of electronic data. For example in particular embodiments data source represents i an information feed from a news provider and or aggregator such as for example Google News Yahoo News CNN an Associated Press feed a Reuters feed and a Really Simple Syndication service ii an email server such as for example a Microsoft Exchange server and or a web based email service iii a social networking site such as for example Facebook Myspace LinkedIn and or Twitter iv a newsgroup server such as for example a Usenet sever v a phone records database vi a patent database vii a library database viii an instant message records database ix a photograph storage database x and or any other collection of information that indicates communication and or collaboration between one or more persons.

Data sources may include one or more application programming interfaces API that enable analyze to connect to and or receive data descriptors from a relevant data source . Data descriptor represents any electronic file message packet and or collection of information that identifies an instance of contact between one or more persons associated with the particular data source . Thus in an example embodiment in which one or more data sources represents a library database data descriptor may represent information related to a work of authorship. Data descriptor may identify one or more authors associated with the work of authorship. In an example embodiment in which one or more data sources represents an email server data descriptor may represent an email. Data descriptor may include header information that identifies a transmitter of the email and a recipient of the email. In an example embodiment in which one or more data sources represents a social networking site data descriptor may represent a tweet a status update a wall posting a news story and or any other relevant information posted to a social networking website. Data descriptor may include person sending the relevant information and a person receiving the relevant information. In an example embodiment in which one or more data sources represents a phone records database data descriptor may represent a record of a telephone call. Data descriptor may include a calling person a called person. In an example embodiment in which one or more data sources represents a patent database data descriptor may represent an electronic record of a patent and or patent application. Data descriptor may include one or more co inventors associated with the patent and or patent application. In an example embodiment in which one or more data sources represents an instant message records database data descriptor may represent an electronic record of a chat session. Data descriptor may include a pair of persons communicating during the chat session. In an embodiment in which one or more data sources represents a photograph storage database data descriptor may represent an electronic representation of a photograph. Data descriptor may further include information regarding persons appearing in a photograph represented by data descriptor . The names of the persons appearing in a photograph may be identified in metadata included in data descriptor . For example a user may indicate one or more persons present in a photograph by tagging one or more persons using photograph editing software. Thus data descriptor my indicate an instance of contact between two or more person present in a photograph. Although illustrates a particular number of data sources alternative embodiments of system may include any appropriate number and type of data sources in any suitable combination.

In some embodiments data descriptor includes information associated with one or more persons identified in a particular data descriptor . For example data descriptor may include information identifying a particular subject matter specialty and or area of expertise of a particular person identified in data descriptor . Data descriptor may additionally or alternatively include a list of works published address and or location information current employer work history and or any other relevant information associated with a person identified in data descriptor . As a result analysis module may be able to search for individuals based on a subject matter specialty and or area of expertise.

Analysis module receives data descriptors from data sources and analyzes data descriptors to determine one or more instances of contact between pairs of persons associated with a particular data source and or data descriptors . As discussed further below analysis module represents a general purpose PC a Macintosh a workstation a Unix based computer a server computer and or any suitable processing device. Accordingly analysis module may include one or more processors and or memory to perform the above described functions. Although illustrates for purposes of example a single analysis module alternative embodiments of system may include any appropriate number and type of analyzers to analyze data descriptors from any suitable data source .

To facilitate communication among the various components of system data sources and analysis module are communicatively coupled via one or more networks . For example data descriptors may be communicated between or among various components of system via network . Network may represent any number and combination of wireline and or wireless networks suitable for data transmission. Network may for example communicate internet protocol packets frame relay frames asynchronous transfer mode cells and or other suitable information between network addresses. Network may include one or more intranets local area networks metropolitan area networks wide area networks cellular networks all or a portion of the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations. Although illustrates for purposes of example a single network particular embodiments of system may include any appropriate number and type of networks that facilitate communication among one or more various components of system .

Example operations of system will now be described with respect to various embodiments of the present disclosure. Although several example operations in accordance with various embodiments are described below it should be understood that the present disclosure is intended to encompass other operations and functions not explicitly described. Moreover the described example embodiments are not necessarily mutually exclusive and particular embodiments of system may perform one or more operations in the same embodiment.

In operation analysis module receives data descriptors from one or more data sources . In some embodiments analysis module connects to one or more data sources over network . For example software executing on analysis module may connect to an API on data source . Once connected analysis module may interface with the API to receive one or more data descriptors . Each data descriptor may identify an instance of contact between one or more persons. For example in an embodiment in which data source represents a library database data descriptor may identify a book or article written by three co authors for purposes of this example Author A Author B and Author C . In this example analysis module determines that data descriptor indicates three instances of contact an instance of contact between Author A and Author B an instance of contact between Author A and Author C and an instance of contact between Author B and Author C. In an embodiment in which data source represents a photograph database data descriptor may identify a photograph that includes three persons for purposes of this example Person A Person B and Person C . Thus analysis module determines that data descriptor indicates three instances of contact an instance of contact between Person A and Person B an instance of contact between Person A and Person C and an instance of contact between Person B and Person C. In an embodiment in which data source represents a patent library data descriptor may identify a patent that includes four 4 co inventors for purposes of this example Inventor A Inventor B Inventor C and Inventor D . In this example analysis module determines that data descriptor indicates six 6 instances of contact an instance of contact between Inventor A Inventor B Inventor A Inventor C Inventor A Inventor D Inventor B Inventor C Inventor B Inventor D and Inventor C Inventor D.

In some embodiments a first data descriptor and a second data descriptor may identify an instance of contact between the same pair of persons. For example a first data descriptor may represent a patent that includes Inventor A Inventor B and Inventor C. A second data descriptor may represent a patent that includes Inventor A Inventor C and Inventor D. Thus analysis module determines that data descriptor indicates an instance of contact between Inventor A and Inventor C in the first data descriptor and the second data descriptor .

Once each data descriptor is received and analyzed analysis module may determine a contact count for each pair of persons identified as having an instance of contact in at least one of the received data descriptors . In particular embodiment a contact count represents the total number of instances of contact between a first person and a second person. Returning to the preceding example based on receiving the first data descriptor and the second data descriptor analysis module determines that the Inventor A Inventor B contact count is one 1 the inventor A Inventor C contact count is two 2 the Inventor B Inventor C contact count is one 1 the Inventor A Inventor D contact count is one 1 and the Inventor C Inventor D contact count is one 1 . If a third data descriptor representing a patent that identifies Inventor A Inventor D and Inventor E is received the Inventor A Inventor D contact count increases to two 2 the Inventor D Inventor E contact count is one 1 and the Inventor A Inventor E contact count is one 1 .

As a result for each pair of persons identified as having at least one instance of contact analysis module determines that a connection exists between the relevant pair of persons. Thus based on receiving the first second and third data descriptors described in the previous example analysis module determines that a connection exists between Inventor A and Inventor B between Inventor A and Inventor C between Inventor A and Inventor D between Inventor A and Inventor E between Inventor B and Inventor C between Inventor C and Inventor D and between Inventor D and Inventor C.

Once a connection between each pair of persons is determined based on the received data descriptor s analysis module calculates a connection score for each identified connection. Analysis module may calculate the connection score based at least in part on the contact count. In some embodiments analysis module sums the instances of contact to determine a connection score. Thus a connection score may equal the contact count. In some embodiments analysis module may calculate a higher connection score for connections that include a higher contact count. For example analysis module may apply a contact multiple to the contact count to calculate a connection score. For instance in the example described above analysis module may multiply the contact count by a contact multiple of three to calculate a connection score. Thus the connection between Inventor A and Inventor D is calculated to have a connection score of six 6 i.e. the contact count of two 2 times the contact multiple of three 3 . The connection between Inventor A and Inventor E is calculated to have a connection score of three 3 i.e. the contact count of one 1 times the contact multiple of three 3 .

In some embodiments analysis module may calculate the connection score based at least in part on the recency of the instances of contact associated with a particular connection. In these embodiments analysis module applies a recency multiple to the contact instance. In some embodiments analysis module applies a higher recency multiple to more recent instances of contact and a lower recency multiple to less recent instances of contact. For example analysis module may calculate a higher connection score for connections that include more recent instances of contact. For example in the example described above the first data descriptor may identify a patent that issued one year prior to the time the first data descriptor is received. The second data descriptor may identify a patent that issued fifteen 15 years prior to the time the second data descriptor is received. Thus analysis module may apply for example a recency multiple of three 3 to instances of contact less than one 1 year old a recency multiple of two 2 to instances of contact one 1 to five 5 years old and a recency multiple of one 1 to instances of contact of more than five 5 years old.

In some embodiments analysis module adds the instances of contact multiplied by the contact multiple to the instances of contact multiplied by the recency multiple to determine the connection score. For example in the example described above the Inventor A Inventor B connection may have a connection score of six 6 . That is the contact count of one 1 times a contact multiple of three 3 is added to the contact count of one 1 times a recency multiple of three 3 the patent is issued less than one year prior to the date of receiving the first data descriptor . The Inventor A Inventor C connection may have a connection score of four 4 . That is the contact count of one 1 times a contact multiple of three 3 is added to the contact count of one 1 times a recency multiple of one 1 the patent issued more than five years prior to the date of receiving the second data descriptor .

In particular embodiments analysis module may identify a connection between a pair of persons based on data descriptors received from more than one data source . For example analysis module may receive a first data descriptor and a second data descriptor from data source and a third data descriptor from data source . A first data descriptor and a second data descriptor may each represent a telephone record of a phone call between Person A and Person B. A third data descriptor may represent an academic paper co authored by Person A and Person B. Thus analysis module may identify a connection between Person A and Person B based on the first data descriptor the second data descriptor and the third data descriptor . Analysis module may further determine that the contact count between Person A and Person B is two 2 . In some embodiments analysis module may apply a data source multiple to a contact count associated with each particular data source to calculate the connection score. For example analysis module may apply a data source multiple of one 1 to connections based on data descriptors received from data source and a data source multiple of four 4 to connections based on data descriptors received from data source . To calculate a connection score analysis module may multiply a contact count by a particular data source multiple. In this example analysis module multiplies a data source multiple of one 1 to the contact count associated with data source and multiplies a data source multiple of four 4 to the contact count associated with data source . As a result the connection score for the connection between Person A and Person B is six 6 i.e. a contact count of two 2 times a data source multiple of one 1 plus a contact count of one 1 times a data source multiple of four 4 .

In some embodiments data descriptor may include an address or other geographical information associated with a person identified in data descriptor . Additionally or alternatively analysis module may determine geographic information from one or more second data sources after receiving data descriptor from a first data source . In some embodiments analysis module may apply a geographic multiple to a contact count. For example based on geographic information associated with each person in a connection analysis module may apply a multiple to a connection count based on the proximity of each person to the other. Thus for persons located within ten 10 miles of each other analysis module may apply a multiple of five 5 . For persons located within fifty 50 miles of each other analysis module may apply a multiple of three 3 . As a result a connection score associated with a particular connection may be based at least in part on the proximity to each other of the persons associated with the particular connection.

Although particular examples of calculating a connection score for a particular connection between a pair of persons are described with respect to it should be understood that any appropriate method of calculating a connection score may be used within the scope of the present disclosure. For example the values used for a contact multiple recency multiple data source multiple and or geographic multiple may represent any suitable values based on any relevant characteristic associated with one or more instances of contact. Moreover in some embodiments analysis module may not use any multiples in calculating a relevant connection score.

Once analysis module has identified a connection and determined and a connection score for each connection between one or more pairs of persons identified in relevant data descriptors analysis module may perform additional analysis with respect to one or more connections. For example in some embodiments analysis module may determine a connection path between two persons who are not directly connected by an identified connection. For example a user may enter a first name and a second name into a user interface associated with analysis module . Analysis module determines whether any connections associated with the first entered name and the second entered name are stored in memory . If the entered names are each associated with a connection in memory analysis module may determine a connection path between the entered names. For example a user may enter Person and Person. Analysis module determines that no connection between Person and Person exists but that each of Person and Person are associated with one or more connections in memory . Analysis module determines each person Person is connected to each person connected to each person Person is connected to and so on. Analysis module repeats the process for Person. For example analysis module determines that Person is connected to Person. Analysis module determines that Person is also connected to Person. Thus a connection path of Person Person Person exists between Person and Person. In some embodiments more than one connection path exists between two or more persons. Thus in this example a user may query information management system for connections and or connection paths associated with a particular person.

In some embodiments GUIs and may illustrate various connection paths between two persons such as for example between Person and Person. Analysis module may determine a connection path in several ways. As shown in analysis module may determine that a connection path of Person Person Person exists and a connection path of Person Person Person Person exists. As a result analysis module may determine a best connection path between Person and Person based on the connection scores associated with each connection in each respective connection path. For example as shown in the Person Person connection may have a connection score of five 5 and the Person Person connection may have a connection score of seven 7 . The Person Person connection may have a connection score of ten 10 the Person Person connection may have a connection score of twelve 12 and the Person Person connection may have a connection score of fourteen 14 . In some embodiments analysis module determines that a best connection path is a connection path with the fewest number of connections. In a connection path of Person Person Person has two 2 connections while a connection path of Person Person Person Person has three 3 connections. Thus a connection path with the fewest number of connections is Person Person Person illustrated by dotted line A.

As a shown in analyzer may additionally or alternatively analysis module determine that a best connection path is a connection path with the highest average connection score. As shown in the Person Person may have a connection score of five 5 and the Person Person connection may have a connection score of seven 7 . The Person Person connection may have a connection score of ten 10 the Person Person connection may have a connection score of twelve 12 and the Person Person connection may have a connection score of fourteen 14 . A connection path of Person Person Person has an average connection score of six 6 while a connection path of Person Person Person Person has an average connection score of twelve 12 . Thus a connection path with the highest average connection score is Person Person Person Person illustrated by dotted line B.

Modifications additions or omissions may be made to system without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example when a component of system determines information the component may determine the information locally or may receive the information from a remote location. As another example in the illustrated embodiment data source and analysis module are represented as different components of system . However the functions of data source and analysis module may be performed by any suitable combination of one or more modules servers or other components at one or more locations. In the embodiment where the various components are servers the servers may be public or private servers and each server may be a virtual or physical server. The server may include one or more servers at the same or at remote locations. Also data sources and analysis module may include any suitable component that functions as a server. Additionally system may include any appropriate number of data sources and analysis module . Any suitable logic may perform the functions of system and the components within system .

Particular embodiments of the present disclosure may provide numerous operational benefits including determining a connection path between two or more persons. Particular embodiments may determine a shortest path between two persons and or a connection path with the strongest relationships between two persons. In a sales operation this may facilitate an introduction between two persons who were previously unknown to each other. For example a sales person may wish to be introduced to a manager at a target company. Utilizing particular embodiments relationships between various connections may be determined to allow the sales person to identify the desired contact. Thus the sales person may be able to contact one or more persons in a relationship path to obtain an introduction to the manager. Particular embodiments may additionally be able to determine a persons immediate or more remote connections and identify the relative strength of those connections. This may facilitate the investigation of fraud rings. For example an organization may suspect a person of committing fraud and may utilize particular embodiments of system to determine who the suspected persons was communicating with and the relative strength of those contacts. As a result system may provide numerous operational benefits. Nonetheless particular embodiments may provide some none or all of these operational benefits and may provide additional operational benefits.

Analysis module comprises any suitable combination of hardware and or software implemented in one or more modules to provide the described functions and operations. In some embodiments analysis module may comprise a general purpose personal computer PC a Macintosh a workstation a Unix based computer a server computer or any suitable processing device. In some embodiments the functions and operations described above may be performed by a pool of multiple analyzers .

Memory comprises any suitable arrangement of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic computer disk CD ROM or other magnetic or optical storage media or any other volatile or non volatile memory devices that store one or more files lists tables queries or other arrangements of information such as data descriptors connections contact counts connection scores contact multiple recency multiple data source multiple geographic multiple and or connection paths . Although illustrates memory as internal to analysis module it should be understood that memory may be internal or external to analysis module depending on particular implementations. Memory may be separate from or integral to other memory devices to achieve any suitable arrangement of memory devices for use in information decluttering system .

Memory is further operable to store logic . Logic generally comprises rules algorithms code tables and or other suitable instructions for receiving storing generating and or analyzing data descriptors . Logic also comprises instructions for analyzing data descriptors including determining a contact count between one or more pairs of persons identifying a connection between one or more pairs of persons determining a connection score associated with one or more connections and or determining a connection path between one or more persons based on a plurality of connections as described herein.

Memory is communicatively coupled to processor . Processor is generally operable to execute logic to perform the described functions. Processor comprises any suitable combination of hardware and software implemented in one or more modules to provide the described function or operation.

Network interface communicates information with network . For example network interface receives data descriptor from data source through network . Network interface represents any port or connection real or virtual including any suitable hardware and or software that enables analysis module to exchange information with network data source and or or other components of system .

Operation in the illustrated example begins at step with a plurality of data descriptors being received from a first data source . As discussed above analysis module may receive data descriptors by connecting to an Application Programming Interface of data sources . Analysis module may periodically connect to data source or may connected to data source in response to a request from a user. Once connected analysis module may receiving one or more data descriptors .

In step analysis module determines whether one or more of the data descriptors indicates an instance of contact between at least two of a plurality of persons. For example analysis module may analyze each data descriptor to determine whether data descriptor includes one or more persons that have connected in some way for example through collaboration or some other way. For example an instance of contact may represent an email between a sender and receiver a book published by co authors an article written by co authors a patent issued to co inventors and or a telephone conversation between a called party and a calling party. If at least one data descriptor indicates an instance of contact between at least two of a plurality of persons operation proceeds at step . If not operation returns to step .

In step analysis module identifies a connection between at least two persons. In some embodiments analysis module identifies a connection for instance of contact identified in a particular data descriptor . That is in particular embodiments for each pair of persons identified as having an instance of contact in a particular data descriptor analysis module identifies a connection. If the same two persons have an instance of contact in more than one data descriptor analysis module may identify a single connection between the respective two persons.

In step analysis module determines a contact count for each identified connection. For example for each identified connection analysis module may determine the number of instances of contact between the pair of persons associated with the respective connection. Thus a contact count may represent a number of times a pair of persons have been in communication and or have collaborated.

In step calculates a connection score for each identified connection. In some embodiments each connection score may be based at least in part on the contact count for the pair of persons associated with the connection. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments analysis module calculates a connection score by applying a multiple to the contact count. For example analysis module may apply a contact multiple data source multiple recency multiple and or geographic multiple to calculate a connection score for each connection. Moreover any appropriate method of calculating a connection score may be used within the scope of the present disclosure. For example the values used for the contact multiple recency multiple and data source multiple may represent any suitable values based on any relevant characteristic associated with one or more instances of contact. Moreover in some embodiments analysis module may not use any multiples in calculating a relevant connection score.

The steps illustrated in may be combined modified or deleted where appropriate and additional steps may also be added to those shown. Additionally the steps may be performed in any suitable order without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Although the present disclosure has been described with several embodiments numerous changes variations alterations transformations and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art and it is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes variations alterations transformations and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

